Durban – The South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) and Postbank called on recipients with Sassa gold cards expiring in March 2023 to go and collect new cards at Post Office branches. A joint statement yesterday (Thursday) said cards may be collected at Post Office branches from Monday, March 13, 2023. “Social grants recipients are urged to take note that only people with Sassa/Postbank Gold Cards expiring in March 2023 must come to collect new cards at the South African Post Office. Grants recipients carrying cards that are not expiring during March are discouraged from making attempts to collect new cards at the Post Office during this month,” said the statement. It said Sassa and Postbank would issue a public announcement regarding the dates and processes for the collection of Sassa/Postbank Gold Cards that expire in further months. “Grants recipients having Sassa/Postbank Gold Cards expiring in further months should not be concerned because they will continue to receive their social grants monies into those cards as they remain valid.” The statement said Mondays and Tuesdays from next week would be dedicated to the issuance of the cards to the old-age grant recipients and disability grant recipients. “Wednesday to Saturday, starting from Wednesday 15 March 2023, will be dedicated to the collection of new Sassa/Postbank Gold Cards to recipients whose cards expire in March 2023 at any Post Offices branch nationwide by persons receiving Child Support Grants and persons receiving all other grants.” The statement said social grant recipients must bring along the following to any nearby Post Office branch to collect their new Sassa/Postbank Gold Cards: Post Office Branch Business Hours: “Post Office branch staff will assist grant recipients to activate the new cards, select a new PIN and the cards will operate immediately to make withdrawals or any other type of transactions.” It said new Sassa/Postbank gold cards will only be issued at Post Offices to the person in whose name the expiring card has been issued. “No person will be able to collect a Sassa/Postbank Gold Card on behalf of another, unless they are registered with Sassa as a procurator.” According to the statement, Sassa grant recipients who have lost or misplaced their Sassa/Postbank card expiring in March 2023 must also go to a nearby Post Office branch to collect their new Sassa/Postbank gold cards. “Post Office branch personnel will use fingerprint verification to issue the beneficiary with a new SASSA/Postbank Gold Card.” THE MERCURY