Durban — The University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) said it would not be able to accommodate ‘walk-in’ applications due to the high number of applications they received.  UKZN’s executive director of the corporate relations division, Normah Zondo, said they received more than 250 000 applications from approximately 110 000 prospective students for these places. She said the high number of applications was caused by the fact that most students applied for admission to more than one programme. Zondo said the most popular courses applied for by prospective students included Bachelor of Education 38 577, Bachelor of Nursing 22 622 and Bachelor of Science 35 867. However, she said UKZN was gearing up to welcome more than 8 000 first-time entering new students (FTENS) for this year’s academic calendar. “UKZN has approximately 8 500 places available for FTENS in undergraduate academic programmes,” said Zondo. She said all registration processes would be completed online and from remote locations. She said after the matric results were released, UKZN immediately commenced with issuing firm offers to qualifying first-entry applicants. “Registration for all first-entry students then takes place immediately following acceptance of offers made. The late release of the matric results will not affect the admission process. Returning students commenced registration on January 10. Both returning and first-entry registration will continue until February 24. Lectures will commence on February 13, 2023,” added Zondo. Furthermore, she assured that the online registration system catered for all aspects of the registration processes; including the acceptance of offers; change of mind; applications for re-admission; counselling as required (academic, curriculum and/or personal); financial clearance; registration for residence and final academic registration. Zondo said that applicants who accepted an offer would be provided with appropriate data to commence the curriculum guidance and online registration processes. “Support and guidance is provided using the Microsoft Teams Platform (this can be done using a suitable laptop, PC, tablet or smartphone that has access to the internet).  Students needing assistance will also be supported by our Msizi Chatbot available on the website and via WhatsApp (060 578 3215). Live agents are also available to help,” she said. Parents, students and prospective students are encouraged to refer to the UKZN website (www.ukzn.ac.za) for help if required. Zondo further cautioned that there was no payment required to use the UKZN online registration portal. She said spaces for the programme were not for sale and no one can promise a place on the payment of a fee. “If members of the public are approached to pay money in return for special assistance, they are urged to immediately report that to the SAPS and the university (https://forensicservices.ukzn.ac.za/tipoffsanonymous-contact) with as many details as possible. “All official communication and information will be made available on the UKZN website (www.ukzn.ac.za) or in the mainline printed media. We urge the public to be wary of social media sources and WhatsApp groups that purport to be official UKZN platforms.” UKZN has embarked on a fund-raising programme to provide bursary assistance to students who are financially needy and unfunded to enable them to register for 2023. The number of awards will be dependent on the amount raised. Students who meet the following criteria may apply for this assistance: Zondo said the NSFAS-funded students would proceed to registration after receiving SMS confirmation of funding status from NSFAS.  “Students can also pay their registration fees ahead of time and request reimbursement from NSFAS once funding is confirmed,” she said. Speaking of tuition fees, she said for many of the programmes vary depending on each student’s combined choice of modules /subjects. Zondo said: “In line with the fee adjustments proposed to universities by the Department of Higher Education and Training, the university’s tuition fees have been adjusted by 5.10% and the student residence fees have been adjusted by 7.10% for the 2023 academic year. The final date for payment of the minimum fee required for registration and curriculum changes is Friday, February 24, 2023.” Daily News