Durban - Department of Employment and Labour appealed to the public to be vigilant and warned that it is open season for scammers who prey on the unemployed by seeking money for jobs. In a statement on Thursday, department spokesperson Teboho Thejane, said the department has noted with concern yet another scam titled “youth employment program” promising the unemployed heaven and earth. “The latest scam follows a number of rackets in which members of the public are asked to pay to receive payouts. The scammers also fraudulently use the Employment and Labour Minister TW Nxesi and the department’s social media accounts to swindle the public,” he said. Thejane said in the latest scam, fraudsters are promising to reward participants in the so-called program with obscene stipends. “But, before this could happen a potential participant in the program has to pay a deposit fee at one of the retailers and also furnish personal details,” he said. He said the department has a Public Employment Services (PES) branch that assists companies and workers to adjust to changing labour market conditions. The PES offers a range of free public employment services, he said. The department said these services range from registering work seekers on Employment Services of South Africa (ESSA) - an online job matching platform, employment counselling, providing subsidies/schemes to non-governmental organisations that assist in the employment of Persons with Disabilities. Thejane said it is illegal in South Africa to be asked to pay for a job. “Desist from paying so-called fully REFUNDABLE FEE(S) when looking for employment. Under any circumstances, if unsure what action to take, go to any of the department’s more than 125 offices or labour centres and mobile service points that are spread throughout the country for more information. “Be alert and protect yourself. Do not part ways with your hard-earned cash and personal details. Do not pay for a job offer,” he advised. South Africa is currently undergoing one of its tough economic phases said Thejane with unemployment at an all-time high and scammers are also taking advantage of the situation. “The department wishes to warn the public to be cautious of newly-found messiah’s who promise members of the public ‘paradise’. The department does not have a ‘youth employment program’.” THE MERCURY