The Association for Dietetics in South Africa shares recipes for meals that can double as breakfast or lunch, and for healthy lunchbox snacks.  *Apple Flapjacks Easy to make and do not require the batter to stand before cooking. They contain both soluble fibre (oat bran) and insoluble fibre (wheat bran), as well as one fruit portion per 3 crumpet serving, making these a healthier alternative to regular crumpets. Because of the flavour and natural sweetness of the banana and apple slices, very little sugar is added to this recipe, resulting in a good low GI breakfast of delicious crumpets. These crumpets can also be served as a snack for mid-morning or afternoon. Makes 15 flapjacks Ingredients: 1 large egg 10 ml (2 tsp) sugar 2.5 ml (½ tsp) salt 1 ripe banana (80 g) 5 ml (1 tsp) vanilla essence 250 ml (1 cup) skim milk (0.5% fat) 5 ml (1 tsp) olive/ canola oil 180 ml (¾ cup) cake flour 5 ml (1 tsp) bicarbonate of soda 5 ml (1 tsp) baking powder 60 ml (¼ cup) wheat bran (digestive bran) 125 ml (½ cup) oat bran 4 medium apples (320 g), preferably green as they are lower GI 5 ml (1 tsp) ground cinnamon 125 ml (½ cup) full cream plain yoghurt (3% fat) 30 g nuts, chopped Method Place the egg, sugar, salt, ripe banana and vanilla essence in a mixing bowl and beat with a fork. Add half the milk to the egg mixture. Sift the flour, bicarbonate of soda and baking powder into the egg mixture, without stirring just yet. Add the wheat bran and then stir gradually using a wooden spoon, until smooth and lump-free. Add the rest of the milk and oat bran and mix in carefully. Core the apples and cut them into thin round slices. Sprinkle the cinnamon over both sides of the slices. Add a teaspoon of canola/olive oil to a non-stick frying pan and spread the oil around the base of the pan with some paper towel, to coat the pan evenly, ensuring the crumpets go a wonderful golden brown colour. Place the four to five (depending on the size of your pan) apple slices onto the non-stick frying pan, allowing the apple slice to cook for 1-2 minutes. Using a tablespoon, spoon one tablespoon of flapjack mixture onto each apple slice. Cook the crumpets over medium heat until they start to bubble on the top. Place another apple slice on top of the bubbles then turn over the crumpet using an egg lifter. The crumpet should be golden brown in colour on the cooked side. Repeat the process until you have used up all the batter and apple slices. Serve three crumpets per person topped with full cream yoghurt and chopped nuts. - by Cath Day and Gabi Steenkamp  *Sweet Potato And Oat Muffins Ingredients: 1 cup mashed sweet potato (roasted) ½ cup canola oil 2 whole eggs, large ½ cup plain, fat-free yoghurt 1 tsp vanilla essence 1/3 cup brown sugar 2 cups oat flour 1 tsp baking powder ½ tsp baking soda ¼ tsp salt 1 tsp cinnamon Method Preheat the oven to 180°C and line a muffin tray with paper cups Make oat flour by grinding rolled oats until fine. Measure 2 cups after grinding. Add the sweet potato, oil, eggs, yoghurt and vanilla into a large bowl and whisk to combine In a separate bowl, mix the sugar, oat flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt and cinnamon Add the dry ingredient mixture to the wet mixture and stir until combined Spoon the mixture into 12 paper muffin cups and bake for 20 to 25 minutes until a skewer comes out clean. NOTE: The mixture is stickier than a traditional muffin recipe. - Kelly Francis  *Date And Chickpea Brownie Bites Legumes, like chickpeas, are some of the most versatile, nutrient-dense and affordable foods to add to your meals and even treats. This recipe is vegan friendly if vegan chocolate is used. Makes 14 date balls Ingredients For the date balls 1 cup dried dates, soaked in boiling water for 20 minutes and then drained ½ cup rolled oats 1 cup tinned chickpeas, rinsed well and drained pinch of salt 1 tbs shredded coconut ½ cup cocoa powder For the chocolate coating 80g dark chocolate slab 1 tsp coconut oil Method Blend the oats in the food processor until it becomes oat flour. Add the dates and chickpeas, and blend until smooth. Gradually add some water if the mixture is very stiff. Add the salt, coconut flakes and cocoa powder, and blend until smooth. Roll into balls and let it set in the fridge. Melt the chocolate in the microwave and then add the coconut oil and combine. Coat your date balls with the melted chocolate by dipping it into the chocolate, covering it and removing it with a spoon. Place on a cutting board or large oven dish with wax paper. Let it set in the fridge and keep it stored in the fridge. - by Michelle Zietsman  *Peanut Butter Spice Granola Bars Amount of servings: 8 Servings Preparation time: 10 Minutes Cooking time: 45 minutes Total Time: 55 Minutes Ingredients 2 cups rolled oats 1/3 cup no-added sugar peanut butter 100g pitted dates 1 medium apple 100ml boiled water 1 tsp vanilla 1 tsp cinnamon 1 tsp turmeric pinch of salt Method Preheat the oven to 180ºC. Add the peanut butter, dates, apple, boiled water and vanilla to a blender and blend until smooth. Mix the rolled oats, cinnamon, turmeric, and salt in a separate bowl. Add the peanut butter mixture to the oat until well combined. Spread out the mixture on a greased baking tray, and bake for 45 to 50 minutes, until light brown and crispy. Let it cool before storing it in an airtight container. NOTES: *This recipe can be enjoyed in different ways. For delicious Granola bars, press the mixture into an oven-proof dish and bake for 45 to 50 minutes. Cut into bars and let it cool. Enjoy it as a snack or breakfast on the go. * Enjoy this tasty granola with some yoghurt to increase the protein content of the meal, as well as a portion of fruit to up the fibre. - by Rhodene Leydekkers *For more healthy meal inspiration visit the ADSA website POST