Durban — The murder and sale of a missing child’s body parts in KwaDukuza recently has been described as barbaric by the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Social Development. In a statement on Monday, MEC Nonhlanhla Khoza strongly condemned the gruesome murder of the child. Philasande Shange went missing from his home in eNtshawini, ward 24, KwaDukuza Municipality, last Thursday. The department said that only a few parts of his dismembered body were discovered in a nearby stream and bushes in the Ntshawini area on Sunday after days of frantic search by the family and neighbours. Philasande’s family had received an SMS from an untraceable number informing them where Philasande's remains could be found. The family only found a leg and his head and later received another text message informing them that the rest of the body had been sold. Khoza described Philasande’s murder as barbaric. “An innocent child's life was cut short by a heartless criminal(s) that need to be traced and prosecuted for their actions. As a society, we cannot continue to live like this anymore. The killing of children set us backward,” Khoza said. The MEC pleaded with the community in the eMphithini area to continue supporting the Shange family and share information with the police which could lead to the arrest of Philasande’s killers. “The gruesome murder of a child is an indication that we have a lot of wickedness in society. We need to work together to ensure the protection of children in our society. We only pray that the criminals can find it in their hearts to direct the toddler's family where to find remains of the mutilated body of Philasande,” Khoza said. Khoza further appealed to the public to share information with law enforcement agencies that can assist in identifying the toddler's killer and tracking down the remaining parts. She said that equally, they want the heartless perpetrators of this “horrendous” crime to pay for their sins. Khoza sent her heartfelt condolences to the Shange family after losing their child in such a horrible way. The MEC also sent a team of social workers to the family to provide psycho-social support. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said a case of murder had been opened. He confirmed that body parts were found near a stream and bushes and were suspected to be from the 7-year-old boy who went missing. “The search for the missing body parts continues, and investigations are under way to ascertain the true identity of the recovered body parts, as well as the possible cause of death,” said Netshiunda. On Tuesday, the Daily News reported that the family is living in fear after receiving death threats. Philasande was reported missing on January 5 when he did not return home from a tuck shop. His immediate family, who declined to be named, located his head and leg under a bridge near the Indifana river. The family claimed they received several SMS messages directing them to the body and threatening them with death. Daily News