Durban – Claims for cardiometabolic conditions have tripled since 2020, with a 200% increase in claims last year, this is according to Discovery which insures more than 40% of South Africa’s medical scheme market.  They said it was important for all South Africans to make health a priority in 2023.  Nicole Jennings, spokesperson for a pharmaceutical company, Pharma Dynamics said the increase in diagnoses for cardiovascular and other chronic conditions may likely be the result of patients forgoing regular health checks due to lockdown restrictions and fear of contracting Covid-19. “After two years of overflowing intensive care wards, some of Covid-19’s indirect effects are now being felt. Delayed medical care, poor medication adherence, increased barriers to healthy lifestyle behaviours (due to lockdowns), a decline in health check-ups and screenings and regular exercise are all factors that have led to the current state of affairs,” said Jennings. Furthermore she said during the pandemic, cardiologists warned patients not to avoid or delay treatment, but many forewent health visits because of Covid-19 fears. Jennings said patients were not aware of their blood pressure numbers and keeping it under control. “In other cases, patients who lost their jobs couldn’t afford to see a doctor and/or fill a prescription, because of cost. We are seeing the harm from delayed care now,” she said. To curb the elevated trend in disease, she said there are steps you can take to protect yourself. •  Resume routine doctor’s visits. It’s safe to do so now, and in the context of heart health, it’s important to know your blood pressure, glucose and cholesterol numbers. • Schedule health screenings. These health checks make people aware of certain health conditions and how to manage it before they become a problem – be it through medication and/or lifestyle modification. • Kickstart a healthy routine. Make a point of eating healthily, getting enough sleep, drinking enough water, and exercising regularly. Staying healthy physically, can help you stay healthy emotionally too. •  Curb your drinking. If you’re concerned about your alcohol consumption, check with your doctor who will be able to tell you if you need to cut back or abstain. Curb your intake by setting a limit, drink slowly, never drink on an empty stomach, choose alcohol-free days and try not to let peer pressure get the better of you. Drinking too much alcohol can lead to cardiovascular diseases, certain cancers and many other physical and mental health disorders. •  Stress less. Chronic stress can take a toll on your heart, so find ways of releasing stress, whether it’s through exercise, meditation or spending time in nature. • Don’t ignore unusual symptoms. Heart attacks and strokes are dangerous conditions that need immediate medical attention. Don’t ignore chest discomfort, shortness of breath, sudden light-headedness or cold sweats. Also be aware of stroke symptoms, such as face drooping or speech difficulty. Acting quickly by calling an ambulance or taking the patient to the ER, can save their lives. Daily News