Durban — An off-duty police officer has been hailed  for her role in the arrest of three women caught fraudulently withdrawing money at an ATM in Durban. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said that the police officer was part of Project 10 000. He said that the new constable got off to a flying start when she effected her first arrest on Tuesday, January 3, 2023. Netshiunda said the vigilant officer was at the Mangrove Centre in North Beach, Durban, when she spotted three suspicious-looking women who were withdrawing money at the ATM. The young officer requested backup from the metro police officers who were in the vicinity and tactically approached the suspects. “The three suspects, aged between 24 and 39 years old, were found in possession of suspected fraudulent Sassa cards, which they were using to withdraw money. They were also found in possession of over R60 000 in cash, 32 Sassa cards, 22 bank cards from various banking institutions, as well as four cellphones,” Netshiunda said. He said the women would appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court soon. Reacting to the arrest, this is how residents reacted: Shane Mahabeer said: “Well done officer. Be honest and God fearing. You will go a long way and your family will definitely benefit from your good karma.” Lu-Anne Dodgen said: “As a first timer recruit this is freakin well done!!! This girl is going to go far!!! From all the members of the South African Police Wives & Partners Support Group we are super proud of you!!!!!” Thembelihle Benny Tshukudu said: “It is said that,' even the smallest victory needs to be applauded'. Hopefully they'll reveal the whole syndicate. Well done to the team involved. Corruption is glorified in Mzansi.” Cathleen Van Der Schyff said: “These people are loan sharks, they keep the cards for repayment of loans, well done officer.” Kabelo Moatshe said: “There are still more of them out there. These arrested ones are just beneficiaries of the system. I was hoping that the Hawks would have closed the taps by now, but they seem to be taking forever.” Daily News