Durban — Lifesaving South Africa (LSA) has praised the efforts of the duty squads who performed duties on each day of the festive period.  The lifesaving club has about 80 clubs on duty at more than 100 beaches and inland waterways in the country.  Despite the huge crowds in extremely hot weather, the LSA lifeguards’ vigilance and quick response ensured that not a single drowning occurred under their watch, said LSA president Dhaya Sewduth.  He said LSA volunteers had control over the large crowds who frequented the beaches and public bathing areas.  Sewduth decried some of the reported incidents over the New Year weekend where a 14-year-old youth who drowned in the eMvoti River in KwaZulu-Natal (unpatrolled area). However, LSA extended its sincere condolences to the families who lost loved ones over the festive period.  Sewduth urged visitors and local beachgoers to only swim where lifeguards are on duty and to comply with the instructions of the lifeguards.  “Lifesaving is all about prevention. And it is only because of the efforts and dedication of the lifeguards that thousands of bathers were prevented from drowning. What is often missed in news headlines is the thousands who were prevented from drowning because of the preventative actions of the lifeguards,” Sewduth stressed. He further explained that the biggest challenge faced by lifeguards is that many bathers do not comply with the clear instructions to stay within the bathing beacons, and they often insist on swimming where they feel like doing so. Sewduth said this not only places them at risk as they are far away from help, but the lifeguards often do not have full surveillance of these individuals as their focus is often on those in the bathing zone. The bathing zones are set up at demarcated areas along the beach that are away from treacherous rip tides. Sewduth continued: “The other difficult challenge is dealing with bathers who swim under the influence of alcohol. “These individuals are often uncontrollable, and law enforcement officials who try to prevent alcohol from being brought onto the beaches must continue as it often prevents bathers who would have gone to swim while being inebriated.” Daily News