Durban — A suspected taxi hit man was shot and killed during a shoot-out with the police earlier this week. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said that the suspect was on the police’s most wanted suspect list and was killed during a shoot-out with the police on Monday. Netshiunda said that officers from the Rapid Rail Police Unit and the Provincial Investigations and Tracking Task Team conducted an intelligence-driven operation at Sea View and cornered the 35-year-old suspect at a house on Braid Avenue. “Upon noticing the presence of the police, the suspected hit man, who was in the taxi industry in the South Coast area, fired shots at the police and a shoot-out ensued. After the shoot-out the suspect was found to have suffered fatal gunshot wounds,” Netshiunda said. “A 9mm pistol with a filed-off serial number as well as ammunition was found in his possession. “The suspect was being sought for six taxi-related murders in Scottburgh and two in uMbumbulu,” Netshiunda said. He said that the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) has been informed for further investigations. Meanwhile, last week, a suspect wanted for the murder of a police officer was shot dead during a shoot-out on Tuesday morning. Netshiunda said that a suspect was being sought for the murder of a police officer who was fatally wounded when he attempted to kill more police officers at his hideout spot in Inanda on Tuesday morning, January 17. A multidisciplinary team consisting of members of the K9 Unit, Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI) Anti-Gang Unit and the DPCI National Priority Violent Crime were pursuing the suspect, who shot and fatally wounded 40-year-old Constable Lindokuhle Gift Goba of the Durban K9 Unit and robbed him of his service pistol on Quarry Road in Mayville on Saturday, January 14. “Investigations led the police to a hospital which the two suspects were privately rushed to with gunshot wounds from the shoot-out with the fallen police officer. One suspect succumbed to his injuries at the hospital, and further investigations revealed the other suspect had discharged himself and escaped from the hospital ward,” Netshiunda said. “Thorough investigation by the police identified a house in Inanda where the suspect was cornered. After the police had introduced and identified themselves as men of law, the suspect responded with a hail of bullets and a shoot-out ensued. During the shoot-out, the suspect was fatally wounded.” Ipid was informed for further investigations. Daily News