Durban — A family that had just moved into their new home had an unexpected visitor when a four metre long southern African python slithered up a tree near their front door. This is according to Durban snake catcher Nick Evans, who shared the story while reflecting on snakes he’d encountered in 2022. Evans said he rescued the impressive snake early in December. He said the female southern African python was four metres long and weighed 28kg. “She’d gone into a tree... right by someone’s front door. It was the family’s first day in that home – and they were not impressed! “I climbed up [to catch] the snake [and] we sort of fell out the tree together, our combined weight too much for the flimsy branches. I had rushed the rescue as a violent lightning storm was starting. The pouring rain had already started. It was quite the dramatic scene,” Evans explained. “Luckily, we fell through many branches that cushioned our fall. I landed upside down, with my foot hung up in the air, caught in a creeper. The snake was still in the branches. I soon got free and her secured.” Evans said the snake was now part of his python study, helping him learn more about the species. “Our python study has been going on for over a year now, and we've collected some excellent data, learning so much about these snakes. They're absolutely incredible animals,” Evans added. Meanwhile, on Christmas morning, a three metre southern African rock python, which had already eaten several goose eggs, was captured on a farm in Emona. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said a farmer contacted Rusa just before 9am, after he spotted the female juvenile snake near his geese enclosure. The python had eaten several goose eggs. “Andrew Douglas from Ndlondlo Reptile Park was contacted and on arrival captured the feisty reptile, which will be relocated to a more suitable location,” Balram said. In a video, the python can be seen lunging at Douglas a few times as he tries to capture it. Eventually, he manages to capture the snake but then lets it go. A few seconds later, he captured it again, by its tail, and placed it in a plastic storage container before closing it. Daily News