Durban — Cheneso has lost its tropical characteristics and it is now classified as a post-tropical depression ex-Cheneso. That was according to the meteorological agency, Météo-France, on Sunday morning. “The strong tropical storm Cheneso has started to lose its purely tropical characteristics. It is now classified as a post-tropical depression ex-Cheneso,” Météo-France said. “This system is moving away from Madagascar and ceases to significantly influence the weather conditions in the south of the big island. “During its evacuation towards the temperate latitudes of the Southern Indian Ocean, ex-Cheneso should circulate near Kerguelen during the day of Tuesday, causing an episode of disturbed weather there.”  It said a low-pressure system was currently present over the south west Indian Ocean. No other suspicious area was present and the formation of another low-pressure system was not expected in the next five days. “There is no current alert in Reunion, and no hurricane threat is expected for the next 72 hours,” Météo-France said. “There is no current alert in Mayotte, and no cyclone threat is expected for the next 72 hours.” Météo-France said at 10am, ex-Cheneso was 1 315km from the Reunion coast (south west) and 1 760km from Mayotte (south). It said ex-Cheneso was moving south-east at 22km/h. Météo-France warned that the previous trajectory and intensity forecasts were to be considered with the greatest caution given their uncertainty. They concern only the position of the centre of the phenomenon, without considering its extension. Meanwhile, on Saturday, Météo Madagascar said at 9am, Cheneso was 282km south-west of Toliara. The average wind was estimated at 120km/h with gusts of 170km/h near the centre. It was moving towards the south-east at a speed of 13km/h. Additionally, the rains (30 to 70mm/24 hours) were expected to persist on Saturday in Morombe and Toliara I-II. Thus, heavy rain vigilance was in effect. Maritime users between Morondava and Farafangana were asked not to venture out to sea until Sunday evening because the weather conditions would remain disrupted. Daily News