Durban — KwaMashu police are investigating two counts of murder and one count of attempted murder after two security guards were shot dead and one technician was left injured during an ambush in KwaMashu on Wednesday. Police, private security and emergency services reacted following the incident. “It is alleged that two security guards were escorting technicians when they were ambushed by a group of armed men who opened fire, fatally wounding the security guards and injuring the technician in the hand. The other victim reportedly managed to flee the scene unharmed,” Netshiunda said. Earlier, Emer-G-Med spokesperson Kyle van Reenen said that just before midday on Wednesday, Emer-G-Med paramedics. along with multiple emergency service agencies, responded to the scene of the shooting. Van Reenen said that on arrival at the scene, paramedics found the scene secured by private security guards and police officers. “Closer inspection found two men had sustained fatal gunshot wounds and they were declared dead by paramedics,” Van Reenen said. He said that the motive for the shooting and the events preceding it were unknown and would form part of the police investigation. Meanwhile, last year two security guards were shot dead and a third guard was  injured during another shooting incident in KwaMashu. The men, who were employed by Imvula Quality Protection, were guarding eThekwini Municipality electricity unit staff who were repairing a transformer on the road. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said police were probing the shooting deaths of two security guards on the corner of Amanzimtoti and Illovo roads in KwaMashu. She said on arrival at the scene, police found the bodies of two security guards, aged 35 and 47, inside a bakkie with multiple gunshot wounds to their bodies. “They were both declared dead at the scene. A third guard sustained injuries and was rushed to the hospital. It was established that the victims were also robbed of their pistols.” The electricity department employees were unharmed. Police at the scene said more than 35 cartridge casings were found on the road. Daily News