Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Sipho Hlomuka said a luxury tourist bus from Mozambique and a delivery truck were torched during a public protest in the Mnqobokazi area in Hluhluwe on Tuesday. The department said the protest took place in ward 1, under the Big Five Hlabisa Local Municipality on the R22 in the uMkhanyakude District. “According to preliminary reports, irate community members took to the streets to vent their frustrations following a sharp surge in the number of hijackings on the route between Hluhluwe and Mhlabuyalingana. Police reports have revealed that last night a motor vehicle was hijacked in the area, but fortunately it was recovered today in Manguzi,” it said. In a statement, Hlomuka strongly condemned the violent act by residents. “We understand the frustration of our people, and we accept that they have a right to voice dissatisfaction or unhappiness. However, that right must never infringe upon the rights of other citizens,” he said. He applauded local law enforcement for their swift response and dismissing the crowd before they could inflict more damage to property. Hlomuka appealed to residents to stop using acts of violence to get their message across. “We urge all community leaders and members to always abide by the prescripts of the law. Such acts of vandalism and anarchy will not be tolerated,” added Hlomuka. According to the department, the issue of vehicle hijackings and subsequent cross-border crime was receiving attention. “Plans to erect jersey barriers on the border between Manguzi and Mozambique have unfortunately been halted by minor technicalities,” Hlomuka said. Hlomuka said the government and all its stakeholders are working tirelessly to resuscitate the jersey barriers project. He said the department believes that these barriers will prevent syndicates from transporting stolen goods to and from our neighbouring countries (Mozambique and Swaziland). He added that the department has deployed 38 social crime prevention volunteers as another deterrent to criminal elements in the uMkhanyakude District.  THE MERCURY