A CENTURY ago, a group of labourers working at a well-established Durban brickyard used football as a means to breakaway from the mundane reality of their lives. Little did they realise their pastime exertions would provide the building blocks for a club that is well respected in local amateur football circles for being serial silverware winners and some of their players who advanced to professional leagues, during 100 years of existence. Coronation Football Club, presently affiliated to the Phoenix and Districts Football Association,  celebrated its 100th anniversary in November. There are no formal records documenting the on-field exploits of Coronation’s 1922 team, but one of the club’s best known achievements many years years later was winning promotion into the old National Soccer League’s 2nd Division (OK League) in 1990. Dudu Munsamy was arguably Coronation’s best-known player. He joined former Federation Professional League team Berea FC, and also played a pivotal role in their epic 6-3 cup final win over Sundowns at a full to capacity Curries Fountain Stadium in 1976. Rajan Pillay, the club’s current general manager, said their name was derived from the company that employed their founder members; Coronation Brick and Tile. The name of the company later changed to Corobrik. Even their choice of colours (red, black and white) for the club formed in 1922 had resonance with their line of work. Pillay said red was the colour of a brick after it was burnt, it was black before going into a furnace and mixture used in brick manufacture was white. “Our first set of football outfits was sponsored by Mr Thirupathy Govender. He was also a labourer at the Coronation factory,” said Pillay. The factory workers lived in barracks in Briardene that were built by the company. In the early 1960s, new Coronation barracks were built in Kenville. Staff living in Briardene were also relocated to the new dwellings that were named ‘Stormville Cottages’. During that era, Coronation played in the old North Coast Football Association before winning the Natal Cup, which was a play-off competition for league winners from the various associations in the greater Durban area. Coronation’s Natal Cup success earned them promotion into the Southern Natal Soccer Board’s leagues. Among the Coronation stars of the 1960s was Sonnyboy Sithia and MM Freddy. A big cup success came in the early 1970s at the Easter Tournament played in East London. “We were the first Durban team to win it. Some of our outstanding players were Johnny Vadivelu, the goalkeeper, his brothers Dudu and Glen Munsamy, Bully Govender, Boboi Applesamy and George Govender. Blondie Puckree guested for us in that tournament. Teams were allowed one guest player. Blondie played professionally for Verulam Suburbs at the time,” said Pillay. Coronation’s main rivals included Riverside, Dimes, Spartak, D’Alberton Callies, Young Springboks and Verulam Pirates. Pillay had fond memories of their clash with Spartak in a Southern Natal cup final played at Curries Fountain. “The match ended goalless and had to be replayed. Vadivelu was outstanding in goals. His heroics ensured we didn’t lose. “We lost the next match 2-1. I was about eight-years old at the time. It was the best game I saw. There was a massive turnout from our supporters. Spartak were from Durban Central and also had a big following.” Pillay eventually played for Coronation before joining their management. “My mother lived in the Briardene barracks and later at Stormville.” But his father was not a member of the Corobrik clan. “He had to relinquish his old job and got work as a labourer with Corobrik for us to keep the house in Stormville. “My grandfather had rights to the house as a Corobrick worker, but he was being pensioned off. Therefore, my dad had to make his move.” It was cast in brick that Pillay would join Coronation, having grown up with the Manikam and Munsamy brothers. Pillay said the club played home matches at the Boardmill Grounds in Sea Cow Lake before they got their own venue in Briardene, which had floodlights. “It was rare back then (1970s) for an amateur team to have floodlights. Corobrick helped with the costs. To mark the occasion we played our big rivals Young Springboks in a friendly match under lights, which we won 2-1.” Pillay recalled both teams were well supported on the day.  “Springboks had an excellent team with Puckree and Rogers Marimuthu in their line-up.” He said the barracks’ guys had a reputation of never shying away from trouble. “Whenever these teams met, a bust-up between fans was inevitable. “As a youngster I knew to keep away from trouble.” He said fans were passionate about football because there were no other forms of entertainment back then. Pillay said he also attended the club’s training sessions. “My idol was Duda (Munsamy). I learnt a lot about football just by watching (him).” The build-up to weekend games created a buzz in the Stormville cottages and on match day there was a festival-like atmosphere as everyone geared (up) for the game. Pillay said Coronation always had a reputation of having the best administrators, which included the Manikam brothers (Loga, Danny Dickey and Velu), Max Reddy and Quincy Pillay. “They were strict and ensured players were well rested ahead of matches, and went house to house the night before. “We had about 100 families in our barracks community. There was nowhere to hide.” Rajan Pillay was Coronation’s manager in the 1980’s when they won three consecutive league titles (Division 3, 2 and 1) before climbing into the FPL’s 2nd Division. Coronation won the 1990 play-off with D’Alberton Callies, for a place in the OK League, 2-1. Basil Hurst and Fishy Govender were Coronation’s goal-scorers Playing in the Coastal Stream, Coronation were unbeaten in their first nine games in OK League. Sagie Pillay, Errol Manikam, Bail Hurst, Gibson Munsamy, Hawky Munsamy, Chundren Munsamy, Joel Qwabe, and Dickey Govender were in the team then. They lost their 10th match, away to Cape Town Spurs, in the dying seconds. Mark Williams scored the only goal. “We eventually finished below mid-table. The NSL only provided a grant for airfare. The balance of the costs had to be covered by us. We survived by staging many fundraising events. “Best of all, the players never asked for wages. They played for the love of the game. “We returned to domestic football the next season.” Pillay said it was a huge honour to have managed the team in that era. A low point for him was Gibson’s death in March 1998, at a 5-a-side tournament in Chatsworth . “There was a shootout between residents, a stray bullet struck him. We were very close.” Pillay contemplated leaving football but was urged to stay on by Coronation’s membership. “Mervin Govindsamy, Harish Ramsumer, Mervin Gabriel and I are the present generation of administrators.” Due to the impact of Covid-19, Pillay was concerned whether the club would get to celebrate 100 years of existence. “I’m proud of the efforts made by the anniversary’s organising committee. We were able to celebrate with past and present members of Coronation.” Coronations’ Over-50 team will take on their Dimes counterparts at the Road 306 ground, Chatsworth on March 4, commencing at 2pm. SUNDAY TRIBUNE