Durban — With disaster management teams on high alert as disruptive rain is expected in KwaZulu-Natal, the Democratic Alliance in KZN has called for urgent action over KZN Disaster Management Centre capacity issues. In a statement, DA Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) spokesperson Martin Meyer said the party noted with concern the severe weather warnings issued by the South African Weather Service (Saws) for much of the province today (Thursday) and tomorrow (Friday). “While we also note and welcome initial steps by the province’s Cogta MEC, Sihle Zikalala, to ready the Disaster Management Centre (DMC), the reality is that this facility is 50% understaffed and underfunded and remains woefully unprepared for extreme weather phenomenon,” Meyer said. He said that in November last year the DA established, through a parliamentary question, that 17 out of a total of 35 DMC posts were vacant. Thirteen of these were classified as critical. The same reply also revealed that the centre was allocated R30.5 million for the 2022/23 financial year – less than the figure allocated the previous financial year. The amount is in stark contrast to that of the DA-led Western Cape, where R85.1m has been allocated to deal with disasters in 2022/23. “Given the situation, the DA now calls on MEC Zikalala to immediately focus on getting this crucial service in order. This must include the filling of critical posts and ensuring increased funding,” Meyer said. “In the interim, the DA calls on all municipalities in affected areas to ensure that they communicate weather warnings to residents effectively. This is particularly relevant when it comes to ensuring that those in areas prone to flooding – including informal settlements close to rivers – are monitored and, if needs be, timeously evacuated. “We also urge the province’s residents to take care during storms which includes not driving unless necessary, not crossing flooded bridges and roads, following official news reports and warnings and being careful about the spreading of fake news,” Meyer said. He added that the DA remained committed to ensuring accountability from the ANC-run provincial government when it comes to the DMC. This facility had to be prioritised. On Wednesday, Zikalala said that Cogta has placed disaster management teams on high alert following the severe weather warning that was issued by the Saws which indicated that large parts of KZN could expect disruptive rainfall which brings the probability of widespread flooding across large parts of the province. “The weather warning which has been placed on level 9 in terms of the scale of impact and likelihood could spell disaster for communities living in low-lying areas,” Zikalala said. He said the provincial disaster management centre has activated the Joint Operations Committee, which will meet daily with all disaster management teams from municipalities to take stock of the situation. “These rains bring the possibility of localised flooding in low-lying areas, susceptible settlements, roads, and bridges,” Zikalala said. He urged residents of eThekwini, Ilembe uMgungundlovu, King Cetshwayo, uMkhanyakude to pay attention to the level 9 weather warning and take all the necessary precautions. A level 5 weather warning for disruptive rain has also been issued for the district's of uThukela, uMzinyathi, Zululand, Harry Gwala, Amajuba, Ugu and parts of uMgungundlovu. “The province of KZN has not fully recovered from the floods that took place last year. Residents are urged to heed these warnings and to not take unnecessary risks,” Zikalala said. Daily News