Durban — The SANDF 5 South African Infantry Battalion, SAPS and Tracker in KwaZulu-Natal recently recovered three stolen vehicles. Captain A Tamela said the presence of the battalion, SAPS and Tracker along the South Africa/Mozambique border, was making it increasingly difficult for criminal syndicates in the area. Tamela said this was evident following an incident on January 23, when 5 South African Infantry Battalion members conducted a joint operation with Manguzi SAPS. During the operation, Tracker confirmed that there was a stolen grey Toyota Hilux that was in Manguzi. The vehicle was allegedly taken by heavily armed suspects during a house robbery in Hluhluwe, northern KZN. “The vehicle was found abandoned in Mbazwana, on the R22 near Manguzi. The owner was contacted to attend the scene. The vehicle was then handed over to Hluhluwe SAPS for further administration. The estimated value of the vehicle is R600 000,” Tamela said. Following that operation, other deployed members were going back to their base, when they came across a stolen white Toyota Quantum in the Thelizolo area. Tamela said the vehicle was stopped and searched. The occupants were six undocumented persons with a driver and co-driver, who are South Africans. “The undocumented persons were apprehended and taken to Manguzi SAPS together with the driver and co-driver, who were charged under the Immigration Act, for aiding and abetting illegal immigrants,” Tamela said. The vehicle was impounded and is at Manguzi SAPS. The quantum is said to be worth R800 000. Tamela said another quick response by the SANDF, SAPS and Tracker, led to the recovery of a Toyota Rav 4. The incident took place on January 23 in the Phelindaba area in northern KZN. The vehicle’s estimated value is R600 000.  It was also taken to Manguzi SAPS. Earlier this month, 5 South African Infantry Battalion and SAPS were instrumental in the recovery of stolen vehicles in northern KZN. Tamela said on January 13, the soldiers received a tip-off about a suspected stolen Hyundai H1 minibus. “It was discovered that the vehicle had a fake registration, fake licence disk and its original engine was replaced. The driver and four suspects were apprehended and taken to Jozini police station. The estimated value for the Hyundai H1 is R350 000,” Tamela said. Tamela said another stolen vehicle was recovered by the SANDF and the SAPS on the same day. “The white Ford Ranger was intercepted on the R66, between Jozini and Nongoma,” Tamela said. The vehicle was reportedly stolen in Pretoria last year. “The driver of the vehicle was arrested and taken to Pongola SAPS. The estimated value of the vehicle is R319 900,” Tamela said. In another incident, a multidisciplinary effort by the SANDF, SAPS and Vehicle Tracking Unit led to the recovery of a grey Mercedes-Benz abandoned in the bushes. Tamela said National Traffic Police and Alpha Security requested back-up from soldiers of the 5 South African Infantry Battalion, in pursuit of a stolen vehicle at Jozini on January 13. “The items found inside the vehicle were keys of the vehicle still in the ignition, 1 x AK47 round and 2 x R5 rifle rounds cartridges,” Tamela said. The vehicle was taken to Jozini police station for storage. The estimated value of the vehicle is R320 000. “The white Mercedes Benz, Hyundai H1 and Ford Ranger were linked to a cash-in-transit heist that took place at Jozini Mall on January 12,” Tamela said. Meanwhile, a joint operation by soldiers of the 5 South African Infantry Battalion and Jozini SAPS‚ which was carried out at KwaJobe Village on January 12 yielded positive results when they recovered a grey Ford Everest with an estimated value of R720 000, in the bushes, Tamela said. Daily News