Popular Durban stand-up comedian Mervyn Pillay heads back to stage at the weekend with his new one-man show, Merv the Swerv. Shows will stage at 8pm on Friday, January 27 and Saturday,  January 28 at the iZulu Theatre, Sibaya Casino. Pillay is known for his past shows like Back in time, Mervyn from Durban, Me Myself and I, Bollywood Comedy Night, and One Nite Stand, which have made him a staple on the Durban comedy scene. During the onset and aftermath of Covid-19, he kept busy on TikTok, using his characters Ravi, Boya, Shambies, Stoneyard and Brommer to comment on current social issues, some of which will come to life on stage. In an interview with POST, Pillay said he last performed live onstage in February  2019, performing One Nite Stand at the iZulu Theatre. “The long break gave me the chance to rethink and analyse everything I had done before. Although I did not have regular gigs, I wrote and experimented with new and different topics. I feel energised and rejuvenated doing for my first one-man show since Covid-19.” Commenting on the new show, Pillay said: “In February 2019 I staged two shows and then the lockdown started, so naturally I had to cancel all bookings for private and public shows. During the lockdown I was in a queue during the first panic buying period when a young man suggested that I post clips on TikTok. “I had no idea what the TikTok app was all about, until I went in and discovered a whole new world of social media entertainment. I started writing, performing, recording and posting on the app; creating different and colourful characters like Boya, Ravi, Shambies and Stoneyard, just to name a few. “Many young people started to appreciate my videos. Over the two years I have done over 100 clips of various scenarios. This really inspired me and gave me the confidence to create and perform even more. I promised myself that if and when I get to start performing again, I am going to make the show family friendly so that the teens, tweens, seniors and the aged can all sit under one roof and have a blast. And here we are,” said Pillay. He said the show touches on life in general: “The challenges, triumphs, failures and human behaviour. The little things in life. I have been on stage for over 30 years entertaining people,  I’ve learnt so much, yet I still strive to learn even more. I tackle us as South Africans, how resilient we are. We had load shedding, lockdown, looting, water shedding all in one go, yet we can still laugh.” Tickets start from R120 and can be purchased via TicketPro. POST