Pietermaritzburg - A traditional healer has advised that a ritual to fetch the spirit of a man who drowned at the Alexandra public swimming pool in Pietermaritzburg be prioritised and a cleansing ceremony be considered to purify the facility. If the man’s family fails to take his spirit home, he may not be able to rest peacefully and he will not be able to provide ancestral protection. His spirit will become restless and could lead to family misfortunes. Nkululeko Mncwabe, 38, a gardener, was found floating in the pool two weeks ago. He had been swimming with two friends who witnessed the drowning. It is alleged that the only lifeguard who was on duty had left his post momentarily when the incident happened. It is unclear whether the men were under the influence of alcohol at the time but they allegedly admitted having it in their possession. The pool has since been closed pending an investigation. Mama Sebi, a traditional healer, explained that when a spirit was being fetched from a place of death, family members would have to speak and explain their intention to take the spirit home. She said Mncwabe’s family would need to kneel next to the pool where he drowned, pray and sprinkle snuff before heading home. A chicken would also need to be slaughtered so its blood could be used in the process. Mama Sebi said when the process is followed correctly the spirit will also bring luck to the family and those who visit the Alexandra pool would not need to worry about possible bad luck. Helen Herbert, general manager at Lifesaving South Africa, said the minimum standard for pools at all times was two qualified lifeguards. She said the public utilising swimming pools should never be left unsupervised. “The best practice for the number of lifeguards is sufficient lifeguards to identify a victim in 10 seconds and reach the victim in 20 seconds with at least one lifeguard on the pool deck per 75 patrons within the pool facility,”she said. Although she could not say whether the lifeguard who was on duty should face any consequences, she emphasised that bathers should only swim when lifeguards were in sight. “Never swim alone. Have friends and family who will supervise your activities. This applies to adults and children. If you are unable to swim, stay out of the water or stay where you can stand without any assistance and within an arm’s width from the wall. Do not enter water deeper than your waist.” Jay Jugwanth from the Concerned Swimming Fraternity (CSF) said too many lives had been lost at the Alexandra pool but no one had been held accountable. Inquests were held but results were never made public. “There is a stipulated ratio for lifeguards to bathers. However, to save costs, the public is put at risk to save costs and a tragedy happens. CSF has made several calls to the municipality to employ extra lifeguards in the interest of swimmers’ safety but sadly our call is ignored and drownings treated callously,” he said. Msunduzi Municipality remained tight-lipped about the findings of their investigation so far. Municipal spokesperson Ntobeko Mkhize would not provide clarity on when the pool would reopen or if the Mncwabe family would be allowed to perform a spirit-fetching ritual for their son. SUNDAY TRIBUNE