Durban - The Police Ministry said the SAPS together with the Department of Health are working to fast-track the testing of the newly procured blood alcohol test kits. This comes after concerns were raised about the shortage of alcohol blood test kits during the busy festive season. National police spokesperson Colonel Athlenda Mathe said there was a global shortage of the vials, which are a component of the blood alcohol test kits, that consists of chemicals to maintain the integrity of the sample until it is tested. Mathe said the supplier had to source the vials from outside of the country and they were delivered as early as December 1. However, she said that these new vials have to first undergo testing before use. “It is important that the newly procured vials, which is a component of the blood alcohol test kits, is tested to ensure compliance to SAPS specifications. It is also equally important to conduct stringent testing as this is the evidence that is presented in court for drunken driving cases,” said Mathe. Mathe said in the absence of the kits the SAPS has been affecting arrests through the multidisciplinary operations and roadblocks that have been held together with the local, provincial, Metro and national traffic departments. “Part of conducting joint and integrated roadblocks is the sharing of resources including the blood alcohol tests kits. Through the sharing of these resources the SAPS has jointly with other law enforcement agencies arrested 1 553 drunken drivers from 1 December to 31 December 2022,” she said. In a statement on Tuesday, Claude Naicker, who is the national manager of the Public Servants Association (PSA), condemned the lack of testing kits. “The PSA learned with shock that SAPS failed to procure alcohol testing kits before the festive season despite the known problem of drinking and driving which has been attributed to more than half of road accidents. “The police minister shamelessly blamed the procurement section without taking responsibility for the failure to adequately resource the department and ensure the filling of vacant positions as SAPS like other government departments experiences a chronic shortage of staff,” he said. Naicker said this failure would create an impractical situation wherein law enforcement officers would have to take all suspected drivers to the hospitals for their blood to be drawn as the same will be needed as evidence in a court of law. As a result, he said the culprits might escape facing the law due to this incompetence, lack of proper planning, and failure to capacitate government entities. “Police and traffic officers will find it difficult to execute their responsibilities. It must be stated that alcohol testing kits are part of the tools of the trade and are as important as being provided with rifles, bullets, safety vests, and cars in good condition,” said Naicker. He said Police Minister Bheki Cele and the executive council must take responsibility for failing the workers and the nation as law enforcement officials cannot be expected to do their job without the necessary tools. “Unfortunately, the health department is already burdened owing to high hospital admissions during festive seasons and the problem is exacerbated by the chronic shortage of staff hence are not able to provide health professionals to join the roadblock teams. The minister must swiftly act to address the problem as we expect traffic to increase in the new year.” THE MERCURY