Durban - eThekwini Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda has issued a stern warning to lazy municipal employees who are “looting” municipal salaries without doing the job they are hired to perform. Kaunda was addressing city employees from various departments during the launch of the Mother of All Clean Ups, which is a much broader campaign that covers 13 precincts which include Durban’s central business district. The campaign is an effort by the municipality to reduce the level of filthiness in the city and surrounding areas. eThekwini Municipality has been battling with littering, dumping and uncollected waste that piles up on the road, particularly in the CBD.  This drew criticism from residents on social media, who accused municipal workers of doing the bare minimum while earning full salaries and benefits. Speaking in isiZulu, Kaunda warned that there were people who would be fired and sent home because they are always absent from work. "We are going to implement that. It's no longer a theory. We want the time-sheet to be signed every week so that we can see who clocked in and out, those who are absent must have a signed leave form. You can't do as you please here. “Do you think the municipality is your uncles' house, if you feel like not coming to work, you just do that? That is not the proper procedure; you must have a signed leave form so that we know where you are,” said Kaunda, speaking over a loudspeaker.  The campaign will focus more on areas such as City Hall, ICC, Albert Park, Warwick Avenue Triangle, Moses Mabhida Stadium, Point, South Beach, North Beach, Umgeni, Musgrave, Greyville and Dalton Hostel. Kaunda said the city has developed a comprehensive operational plan  which will focus on blocked drains, overgrown grass and trees, street lighting, unauthorised building works, water and sewer leaks, homelessness, potholes, the enforcement of by-laws, and bad buildings, among other issues. He said the teams were on the ground identifying challenges in other precincts, particularly in the secondary CBDs which include Pinetown, Isipingo, Verulam and oThongathi. Kaunda added that the campaign would be complemented by an intensive education drive to encourage residents to keep their environment clean. “This is not a once-off, but will be sustained throughout the year,” he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE