Durban - The SANDF is calling on matriculants below the age of 26 who wish to join the defence force to send in their applications.  The country’s last line of defence will be taking applications until the end of February to join the force through its military skills development system next year. In order to be eligible, applicants must be South African citizens (no dual citizenship), have no criminal record, and comply with medical fitness requirements for appointment to the SANDF. Applicants who wishes to join the SA Army and the SA Air Force (pilots and navigators) must comply with the minimum height and weight requirements stipulated in the application forms. All applicants will be subjected to drug testing, as well as fitness, psychometric and medical evaluations; may not have any visible tattoos (legs, lower arms, neck, and face); must not be area-bound (in other words, must be deployable anywhere in South Africa or the southern Africa region); and should preferably be single. AGE AND QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: 18-22 years old when reporting for MSDS 2024 Intake and have successfully completed Grade 12, with the Admission Point Score as stipulated: *SA Army: APS 17 and above, excluding life orientation – level 4 mathematics and physical science will be advantageous. *SA Air Force (General Musterings). APS 17 and above, excluding LO, with specific subjects and levels as stipulated per occupation. *SA Air Force (Technical Trade). APS 20 and above, excluding LO, with mathematics, physical science and English with at least level 4. *SA Air Force (Engineer). APS 35 and above, excluding LO, with mathematics, physical science and English with at least level 4. *SA Navy (Combat, Technical Engineering): APS 24 and above, excluding LO and mathematics and physical science with at least level 4 for both subjects (NO mathematical literacy). *SA Navy (Support). APS 24 and above, excluding LO, with specific subjects and levels as stipulated per occupation. *SA Navy (Divers and Submariners): *Divers. APS 20 and above, excluding LO, and mathematics with least level 3 (NO mathematical literacy). (2) Submariners. APS 24 and above, excluding LO, and mathematics and physical science with at least level 4 for both subjects (NO mathematical literacy). vi. SA Military Health Service. APS of 24, excluding LO for all available occupations with specific subjects and levels as stipulated per medical/nursing occupation. b. 18-24 years when reporting for MSDS 2024 Intake and successfully completed Grade 12 with APS 20, excluding LO, with specific subjects and levels as stipulated: i. SA Air Force (Pilots/Navigators). (1) Mathematics, physical science and English minimum (Level 4). (2) Commercial Pilot Licence (CPL) and Grade 12 with mathematics, physical science and English minimum (Level 4). c. 18-26 years if in possession of a three (3) year tertiary qualification (degree, national diploma or N6, with N4 and N5 prescripts): i. SA Air Force (Engineers).  Industrial engineering, electronic engineering, civil engineering, mechanical engineering and aeronautical engineering. ii. SA Navy (Engineering). Mechanical engineering and electrical engineering. iii. SA Military Health Service. (1) Public relations and journalism. (1) Organisational study. (2) Medical/nursing occupations. APPLICATION FORMS Application forms will be issued and received at regional offices until the closing date on February 28, 2023. No late applications will be accepted. Applicants should note that the SANDF does not have any online application system. Forms can be downloaded from official SANDF social media or obtained from the relevant office in each province. Applicants are to sign and date the application form. Applications are not for sale. Under no circumstances will money need to change hands when receiving or submitting MSDS application forms. SUNDAY TRIBUNE