Durban - The ANC fighting corruption head-on and bringing to book those responsible for ransacking the country’s coffers through an elaborate state capture project could be the “ventilator” that breathes new life into the party’s 2024 election hopes and beyond.  This was the view of a political commentator who said tackling corruption with intensity could see the ANC regain the voter confidence it bled, especially in recent years. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s January 8 Statement, at the Dr Petrus Molemela Stadium in Mangaung today, could provide that proverbial turning point as the party attempts to regain its mojo.  Ramaphosa is expected to focus on solutions to corruption, unemployment, service delivery and the energy crisis that is also devastating the country’s economy, given the tone and trajectory of his recent ANC addresses; the party’s 55th national elective conference in December and the reconvened hybrid conference on Thursday.  Siyabonga Ntombela, a political analyst from the University of KwaZuluNatal, agreed. Ntombela said he would not be surprised if Ramaphosa repeated the same message he had delivered in recent weeks.  “However, I think a big part of his address would be around the Zondo Commission report. We expect him to say that he is reviving state processes responsible for the apprehension and prosecution of the likes of Brian Molefe, Anoj Singh and others, who have been implicated in scandals. “It is expected because that will be the ventilator that keeps the ANC alive between now and 2024. People are hoping to see arrests in this period.  If they arrest as many as they can, then the ANC is going to win the upcoming election,” Ntombela predicted. He said a lack of arrests would see the voters’ confidence in the ANC further eroded as they would decide that the party was not going to work for them. Ramaphosa has used his previous January 8 Statement podiums, since his first in January 2018, to drive home the importance of fighting corruption and bringing to book those responsible for state capture.  During last year’s January 8 Statement event in Polokwane, Limpopo, he once again said the ANC, as part of the renewal process, would intensify efforts to eradicate corruption from society and the organisation.  However, the most notable arrests and court appearances thus far have been those of state-owned enterprises executives Molefe and Singh.  Apart from former mineral resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane and former ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule, who are out on bail in the Vrede Dairy farm case and the R255 million Free State asbestos scandal respectively, no other implicated politicians have been brought to task to date. In his closing remarks, Ramaphosa said that during their policy discussions this week they had discussed the necessary steps that had to be taken to build an economy that served all South Africans.  “This is an economy that bridges the huge gap between wealth and poverty, between privilege and disadvantage, between black and white and between men and women,” said Ramaphosa. He said the party’s growth had to be inclusive and create much-needed jobs and opportunities for all.  “We have agreed on action to address the immediate challenges our country faces – chronic unemployment, an electricity crisis, and the rising cost of living – while setting out the path that we must follow to further transform our economy,” Ramaphosa said.  With service delivery remaining one of the country’s biggest challenges, Ramaphosa said they had agreed to strengthen local governments and improve service delivery output around the country.  “The 55th national elective conference of the ANC would be recalled as a decisive moment in the party’s soon-to-be 111-year history, where the values and principles of the movement were reaffirmed.  This conference will be recalled as a moment when we stood as one in turning our backs on the destructive tendencies and practices that have eroded the people’s confidence in our movement,” Ramaphosa promised. SUNDAY TRIBUNE