Durban - A number of organisations have raised their voices to object to the 18.65% electricity tariff increase for 2023 that has been approved by the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa).  The National Freedom Party (NFP) and the Southern African Faith Communities’ Environment Institute (Safcei) are among those who have condemned the price hike. NFP leader in Parliament, Ahmed Munzoor Shaik Emam said the increase was completely outrageous.  “How is it justifiable to increase electricity prices, when consumers are experiencing up to 10 hours a day of load shedding. It makes no sense. In the middle of the summer, when demand is much lower than in winter, we have increased load shedding. Eskom is becoming a black hole that swallows money, without any real fixing taking place.” Emam added that even though the approved increase was lower than what Eskom had applied for, it still exceeded inflation and was therefore exorbitant and total daylight robbery.  “With this increase, we are hearing of more people wanting to go off the grid and use solar power. It is completely ridiculous that even with that they want to cash in and regulate it. The cost of living in this country is becoming ridiculous, and those in power have no regard for families who are struggling to make ends meet.” Emam said the NFP called for the immediate intervention of President Cyril Ramaphosa and for the increase to be scrapped.  “Communities are struggling. An increase in electricity will have a ripple effect on all other sectors and result in an increase in other prices. It is not just about whether Eskom needs the money. It is about whether South Africans can actually afford this. And right now, the majority of citizens cannot.” Emam added that the NFP was calling on the South African citizenry to finally say enough is enough, rise up and force a change through protest action.  “There exists a poverty of ideas in government, as every decision they have taken has failed dismally. The time is now for action. South Africans need to take back their power by holding the government accountable.” Safcei executive director Francesca de Gasparis said the electricity price increase was too much.  “Eskom should not be allowed to have above inflationary increases as consumers are being taxed both in terms of the unreliable and insufficient energy supply as well as the cost of the energy.” In its statement, Safcei also included comments from members of the public about their concerns regarding the tariff increase. Ricardo Swanepoel, Gqeberha, said the country had seen a steady increase in load shedding stages with constant maintenance and fuel shortage challenges touted as the main contributing factors.  “However, the reality is that Eskom is in a state of disaster and should be treated as such. The Presidency should declare South Africa’s power situation as the national crisis it is and allocate emergency funding to steady the supply of reliable energy to consumers and industry.” Bino Makhalanyane, from Cape Town, said: “I think it’s high time we mobilise faith leaders (at a high level) to empower them and allow them to lead to stand against such, it cannot be that we continue to pay almost the same bill while we (are) only getting 40% of electricity.  “Maybe Safcei could find ways of educating the public on alternative forms of harvesting energy, such as biogas or installing solar panels. Advocate for tax-free renewable energy material.” THE MERCURY