Durban — A suspect is expected in court after he allegedly stole batteries worth R2 million. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel Nqobile Gwala said: “A 35-year-old suspect was arrested after he was found in possession of 17 suspected stolen cellphone tower batteries. He is expected to appear before the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Friday.” According to information received by the Daily News from Diamond Protection Services, approximately R2 million in infrastructure was recovered on Wednesday at about 1.25am. The information read that Diamond Protection was on patrol heading towards Inanda Road when reports were received of a business break-in nearby. “Members then came across a male individual running toward our reaction officer and a short foot chase ensued, leading to our reaction officers detaining him for further investigations to be conducted by the SAPS. “After a thorough investigation with members from Greenwood Park SAPS, it was established that the individual and two additional suspects were involved in the theft of items at Ebonyfield Avenue,” the information read. The suspect was handed over to the police for processing and further investigation. Meanwhile, last year police recovered 18 cellphone tower batteries along with other infrastructure after police received intelligence about an illegal scrap metal dealer that was operating at Shakaskraal in the Umhlali policing area. A multidisciplinary joint operation was put in place and police conducted a preliminary reconnaissance of the identified premises. “The team swooped on the scrapyard and an inspection was conducted. It was established that the business was indeed operating illegally. Copper cables which belonged to Transnet were recovered and weighed 614.5kg. A further search was conducted and 18 cellphone tower batteries were found concealed in a bag. The total value of the recovered property is estimated at R1 million,” Gwala said. “Three men, aged between 34 and 36, were placed under arrest for possession of the stolen property as well as damaging and tampering with the essential infrastructure. The docket was transferred to the Hawks who took over the investigation,” she said. Daily News