Durban — The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) has indicated that mop-up operations are continuing after heavy rains battered parts of the province in recent days. Cogta MEC Sihle Zikalala said  proactive measures that were taken by disaster management teams ensured communities were fully aware of the actions they needed to take should they find themselves caught up in an incident. “We, therefore, wish to commend disaster management teams for their proactiveness in trying to deal with the heavy rains that have caused damage to several households and damaged roads and electricity infrastructure in a number of municipalities,” Zikalala said. He said that houses were damaged in a number of districts with the full extent of the damages still being assessed. “Disaster management teams are still trying to recover the body of the missing child that is believed to have been swept away in Msunduzi,” Zikalala said. “A house collapsed in Msinga injuring occupants who are recovering in hospital.” Zikalala added that the Provincial Disaster Management Centre is also working closely with the uMzimkhulu Local Municipality to make sure that people stay away from flooded areas in the town. “Residents are also urged to continue to heed weather warnings whenever they are issued,” Zikalala said. On Saturday, Msunduzi Municipality said that the city was experiencing a disruption in water supply affecting various areas. “We are jointly working with Umgeni Water to ascertain the exact location of the problem. Due to the incremental weather conditions, the location of burst pipes has been difficult to locate,” the municipality said. “We are also in further discussions and on-the-ground activity checking for supply problems. We sincerely regret this unanticipated supply of potable water problems during this period, and we are ensuring that this is a priority.” On Friday, the KwaDukuza Municipality (KDM) said it has received reports of partial damage to informal settlements and trees collapsing resulting in disruptions to public roads. KDM Disaster & Emergency Services Teams remain on high alert and attend to incidents as and when they are reported. At this stage, no one has been displaced. The municipality's teams are working around the clock to ensure the seamless continuation and to ensure necessary support to those who may require evacuation. Daily News