Durban - South Africans will have to remain on the edge of their seats with regard to a Cabinet reshuffle of ministers as President Cyril Ramaphosa continues to apply his mind about possible changes, following the conclusion of the ANC’s 55th national elective conference this week.  Amid events prior and after the conference, held from December 16 to 20, its adjournment and reconvening on Thursday, talk of a reshuffle continued to gather momentum, but Ramaphosa remained tight-lipped on the subject of changes to the country’s national executive.  This week he toyed with supporters and others in Mangaung, in the Free State, who broached the topic, and suggested they rein in their curiosity. “Watch this space,” was Ramaphosa’s tongue-in-cheek response.  The ANC was engaged in several activities in Mangaung, the birthplace of the ANC on January 8, 1912, since Thursday, with the festivities set to conclude with the “January 8 Statement”, which Ramaphosa will present today.  The Dr Petrus Molemela Stadium was expected to welcome around 15000 people, including the ANC’s national leadership, other office-bearers and supporters to the venue, where Ramaphosa is due to kick off what is shaping up to be a significant year for the party.  Reading between the lines of Ramaphosa and ANC secretary-general Fikile Mbalula’s assertions this week, it seemed likely that a reshuffle was on the cards.  With Mbalula now placed full-time at the ANC’s Luthuli House headquarters, Ramaphosa will also have to fill his soon-to-be-vacated minister of transport slot.  However, despite saying in December that he would resign from that portfolio, it remains unclear when Mbalula will tender his resignation.  Before teeing off at the ANC Presidential Golf Day in Mangaung on Friday, Ramaphosa urged South Africans to allow him to apply his mind on matters concerning the Cabinet’s composition and said “watch this space”, while Mbalula said it should happen in the next week.  “The president is also looking at the issue of replacements in Cabinet, so it could be in the next week, after this conference and January 8. We are hard at work in terms of restructuring.  “We are also hard at work in terms of government structure. The president would have applied his mind on some of these issues,” Mbalula said. Speaking to the media on the sidelines of the golf day, Ramaphosa said South Africans should “obliterate” the thought of a reshuffle and wait until he had applied his mind.  “Stop asking when that is going to happen. Just know that the president will apply his mind and as always we will be coming to you all, to the nation, and telling you what is going to happen.  So, relax, have a cup of coffee and just sit back and watch this space,” Ramaphosa said. The likely changes to the Cabinet include a replacement for Mbalula and a change in the deputy presidency after Paul Mashatile succeeded David “DD” Mabuza in that position at the elective conference.  Others with ministerial positions who did not make the ANC national executive committee include Pravin Gordhan, the public enterprises minister, Thulas Nxesi, the employment and labour minister, Sdumo Dlamini, the deputy minister of small business development, and Blade Nzimande, the higher education minister.  Questions remain around Lindiwe Sisulu and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s futures as ministers of tourism and co-operative governance and traditional affairs respectively.  This after Dlamini Zuma voted against the party line over the adoption of the Phala Phala report in Parliament in December and Sisulu spoke in support of the motion.  Political analyst Zakhele Ndlovu, of the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said Ramaphosa should appoint ministers who could deliver in the various portfolios and inspire confidence in South Africans. “In his first term, Ramaphosa wanted to appoint as many people from the different factions of the ANC to ensure unity.  Even though the party continues to talk about unity and renewal, it’s going to be very important this time to appoint competent people as he’s no longer afraid of achieving a second term in office, which he already has. “I’m sure Ramaphosa would want to leave a legacy and be seen as someone who tried to fix our problems as South Africans,” Ndlovu said.  He believed that Dlamini Zuma was doing a good job in her portfolio and there would be no need to replace her just because she did not tow the party line. “Again, to appease those who are not from his faction, it is going to be important to be really seen to be pushing this issue of unity and renewal. “In the case of NDZ, I’m not too sure it would be a good idea to replace her,” Ndlovu said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE