Durban — The Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) has warned about a fake traffic police officer traineeship programme recruitment circulating on social media. RTMC spokesperson Simon Zwane said the fake advert directs prospective applicants to download the traffic traineeship applications form for 2023 using the RTMC brand name to legitimise the programme. The advert claims that posts are open to all nationalities and promises work permits, accommodation and medical facilities. “The corporation distances itself from this fake advertisement. The corporation would like to place it on record that it is currently not recruiting any traffic officer learners. When posts do become vacant, the corporation will advertise its vacancies through various reputable platforms, including our website, mainstream media and RTMC social media platforms,” Zwane said. “The RTMC traffic officer recruitment is not open to all nationalities. The corporation trains South Africans between the ages of 18 and 35 and does not organise work permits for trainees who are not South African citizens.” Zwane advised the public to authenticate any job advertisement by logging on to the RTMC website at www.rtmc.co.za. Any advert that is not on the website should be treated with suspicion. Last year, the RTMC started the selection process to choose individuals who will undergo traffic officer training at its academy this year. This is after receiving approximately 167 000 applications for posts advertised in April 2022. Zwane said shortlisted applicants would be required to undergo a physical assessment before the end of the year. A formal communiqué would be issued advising applicants about the date and venue where they should present themselves for assessments. The RTMC also cautioned all applicants to be aware of possible imposters who will contact them posing as employees of the RTMC. He said applicants are also to note: “No money should be paid to any company or individual as part of the recruitment process, the RTMC will not ask applicants to pay any fees. Information regarding recruitment will be posted only on the RTMC’s official platforms and these platforms are the only platforms applicants should go to for any information and updates regarding the recruitment process.” Daily News