Durban — A suspect is wanted for the murder of a police officer who was shot dead during a shootout on Tuesday morning. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said that a suspect was being sought for the murder of a police officer who was fatally wounded when he attempted to kill more police officers at his hideout spot in Inanda on Tuesday morning, January 17, 2023. A multidisciplinary team consisting of members of the K9 Unit, Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (DPCI) Anti-Gang Unit and the DPCI National Priority Violent Crime were pursuing the suspect, who shot and fatally wounded 40-year-old Constable Lindokuhle Gift Goba of the Durban K9 Unit and robbed him of his service pistol on Quarry Road in Mayville on Saturday, January 14, 2023. "Investigations led the police to a hospital which the two suspects were privately rushed to with gunshot wounds from the shootout with the fallen police officer. One suspect succumbed to his injuries at hospital, and further investigations revealed the other suspect had discharged himself and escaped from the hospital ward," Netshiunda said. "Thorough investigation by the police identified a house in Inanda where the suspect was cornered. After the police had introduced and identified themselves as men of law, the suspect responded with a hail of bullets, and a shootout ensued. During the shootout, the suspect was fatally wounded." Netshiunda said the Independent Police Investigative Directorate has been informed for further investigations. On Monday, sister publication The Mercury reported that Goba was travelling in his vehicle in Quarry Road East when the incident occurred. According to an incident report, the officer, who was travelling with a passenger, saw four men coming out of a shisanyama, and one of them was armed. Goba questioned the man about the firearm, and the man opened fire on him. He returned fire but was killed. The passenger in the vehicle was injured, while the four men fled the scene, the report said. Another serious crime report said a witness reported that prior to the shooting, there was an altercation at the shisanyama as four men wanted to enter the premises with a firearm, which was not allowed on the premises. KZN Hawks spokesperson Simphiwe Mhlongo said the matter initially was investigated by the Mayville police station but had since been handed to the Hawks for investigation. Daily News