Durban -Trade union Uasa says back to school expenses are an annual financial stress for most parents as paying school fees, for transport, uniforms and stationery puts a strain on their disposable income.  Abigail Moyo, spokesperson for Uasa said that while schools in the inland provinces started yesterday, schools in the coastal provinces will open on January 18, and many parents are still counting cents and going shopping to buy the necessary items. She urged parents to plan ahead. “There are steps you can take to prevent the stress of back to school expenses. Make a list. Most schools provide parents with a book and stationery list of items to be bought before the new school year. Some stationery items are subject-related and may be added during the year. Also include new clothing items your learner might need,” she said. Moyo added that parents should draw up a budget.  “A parent is usually well informed about what the new school year will cost, even when their learner is changing schools. Use your list to draw up a budget and do your shopping accordingly. Add additional items as the year progresses,” she advises. Moyo said that parents should also be aware of discounts and promotions. “Before spending anything, watch specials and promotions by visiting websites and online retailers. Compare prices, and don’t forget the cost of travelling to several shops or the delivery costs of online purchases,” she said. Moyo added that saving for school expenses would help.  “Just in case you forget something or your learner needs additional items later in the year, money set aside for this purpose will assist in making ends meet. Also, remember the cost of school assignments, excursions, and birthday gifts for friends or a teacher,” she said. Moyo said that parents should also start saving money from this year for 2024 back to school expenses. “Put a certain amount in a savings account every month for each of your school-going children, and you will have a much less stressful start to the next school year.” THE MERCURY