The new year is the start of the weight loss frenzy season. But typically, we fail to understand the importance of holistic health and wellness in dieting and detoxing. Nelile Nxumalo, a registered dietitian based in Richard's Bay and a spokesperson for The Association for Dietetics in South Africa (ADSA), said there are no quick fixes when it comes to weight loss. “We need to remember that the weight gain happens over an extended period, so there are not any miracle solutions that will work overnight. Each person’s body is different, and there are many factors that will determine whether a person will lose weight rapidly or not. Factors such as lifestyle, age, environment, co-morbidities and social influences all play a role in how quickly one reaches their goals. “We need to bear in mind that what works for one person might not particularly work for you. If you reduce your calorie intake drastically, it often results in weight regain due to the changes that your body goes through. “Your body will adapt to the lower calories intake and therefore slow down your metabolism, reducing the number of calories that you burn. When you go back to normal eating with a slower metabolic rate or slower ability to burn energy, the weight starts piling back on again.” Nxumalo said crash diets are marketed as a magic potion that would make you lose weight, regardless of whether you change your lifestyle or dietary habits. “The danger with these diets is that they are unsustainable and pose a serious threat to one’s health. These may include dehydration, chronic fatigue and may even impair kidney and liver function. “Most of these fad diets focus on one food group that is consumed in excessive amounts, and this will result in a deficiency of nutrients. Imagine just eating cabbage or eggs the whole day. This means there isn’t a balance in energy, nutrients and minerals that is obtained for eating a varied diet that includes lean proteins, fibre-rich carbohydrates and unsaturated fats.” Nxumalo said currently, the most popular crash/miracle diets are the coffee diet, juice cleanses and keto diet. She explained these in more detail: * Coffee diet: It involves drinking several cups of coffee a day while restricting your calorie intake. Firstly, there is a high risk or weight regain as the diet and the excessive amounts of caffeine consumed can have side effects. The high amounts of caffeine can result in problems such as a raised blood pressure. Coffee is also a diuretic, which means it causes you to excrete more fluid through urine. This will also result in a loss of important electrolytes that the body needs. Other potential side effects of excessive coffee consumption are insomnia, headaches and has been linked to heart attacks. *Juice cleanse: With this diet, you basically drink juices from fruit and vegetables over a certain period, which can range from three days to three weeks. They are popularity stems from that they offer quick results and claim to improve overall well-being. The downside is that you generally feel hungry all the time as there is not enough solids to meet the daily energy requirements. It could lead to irritability, tiredness and headaches from energy restriction and hunger. There has also been some research that links these types of diets to an increased risk of eating disorders. *Keto Diet: This diet is a very low-carb, high-fat diet. It has been shown to be beneficial in weight loss in some individuals. However, one plan does not fit all. High saturated fat intake can lead to excessive calories that may not be burnt off if you have a sedentary lifestyle. Side effects such as constipation, digestive discomfort and decreased exercise have also been reported. There is also a saturation of ready-made juices, pills, powders and the like on the market that promises fast weight loss. Nxumalo said ensuring these are correctly approved was important. “The South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) is the council that approves health products that come into the country. Most natural health products are not registered by SAHPRA. Before taking any new health product on the market, it's best to get advice from your doctor or health practitioner. “The body naturally gets rid of harmful compounds and toxins on its own. The liver, kidney, lungs, intestines and skin all do this naturally. The bottom line is the body’s natural system, and pathways are constantly at work to rid you body of any that they may be toxic, and there is no need to detox. “To help the body to do this more effectively, a diet rich in whole foods, grains, drink plenty of fluids and a reduction in processed foods and sugar and increased in physical activity will be beneficial. Best is to let the body do what it is meant to do naturally and not use products that haven’t been scientifically tested and approved,” she said. POST