Durban — KwaZulu-Natal police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi has strongly condemned the burning of vehicles on the R22 Road between Nyakaza and Mbazwane in the uMkhanyakude district of KwaZulu-Natal. A bus and a truck were burnt on Tuesday afternoon. As a result, cases of hijacking and malicious damage to property have been opened for investigation by the Hluhluwe police. The criminal acts are alleged to be perpetrated by criminals posing as law-abiding citizens, and were purported to be directed to supposed Mozambican criminals who are suspected of being involved in a vehicle theft syndicate. Mkhwanazi called upon residents of uMkhanyakude district to respect the rule of law and acknowledge the interventions which the management of police in the province have put in place to curb the scourge of vehicle theft in the area. “We do not support this behaviour and as a caring organisation we have listened to the concerns of the residents.  “They demanded the upgrading of their police station and we acceded to that.  “The station is now at the level of a Colonel,” he said.  Mkhwanazi said they have deployed extra members to the area. He added that the Emanguzi police station has been built and will be handed over to the SAPS by the Department of Public Works and Infrastructure soon.  Mkhwanazi said that in December 2022, the SAPS appointed a new district commissioner, Major-General Mduduzi Shezi.  He will take up his post on Wednesday, February 1.  Mkhwanazi said the interventions have had almost immediate impact and a number of suspects have been arrested and detained adding that the statistics have shown a decrease in vehicle crimes in the district. “Operations with Community Policing Forum and other structures are ongoing in order to rid the area and the entire district of crimes related to vehicle theft and smuggling,” Mkhwanazi said. Community members were urged not to incriminate themselves by taking the law into their own hands and embark on violent actions, including damaging property. The police has urged anyone with information regarding the whereabouts of the suspects who burnt a bus and truck on Tuesday to contact the nearest police or call our crime stop number: 0860 010 111 Daily News