THE new year brings with it an energised effort to get fit on the part of most people. But often the drive fizzles out within weeks. Ceejae Miller, a biokineticist based in Durban, said for anyone wanting to start a new exercise routine, the best advice was to set yourself a goal, like a 5km race, a fun swim, an eight-week challenge and so on – usually done with other people so you are being held accountable.  “It is easy not to go train if no one is there waiting for you to arrive,” Miller said. “Exercise should be a fun experience. Yes, of course the training itself is tough, that’s how we get stronger – by pushing, and breaking boundaries – but it should be more than just the 45 to 60 minutes of exercise. “It should be about the vibe and excitement at training, the hype of the upcoming event, the chit chat amongst the other beginners. Make your new exercise experience fun and something to look forward to, even if the social aspect is what gets you to go. You will train when you are there.” Miller said walking was a great way to start. “It is free and you don’t need anything to start, not even shoes. Most cities have a safe, well-lit area where a few individuals can walk together. I know there are even a few mall walkers who meet in larger shopping centres, and walk the mall. They get up to 5km to 10km. “I would suggest starting slow: 1-1.5km at a comfortable rate, or a 15- to 20-minute walk if timing, where you are able to talk the whole time. Ideally, walking three times a week is great, upping the distance (or time) every week. For example, week 2:  1.5-1.8km (or 20-25 min); week 3: 1.8-2km (or 25-30 min).” Starting with body weight exercises twice a week is also a good idea. “These can be done in the comfort of your home, or a friend’s house. Use lighter weights, with more reps. Body weight exercise means we use our body as the weight, and not add additional weights like dumbbells, or filled 2-litre water bottles. “It is important to watch yourself in the mirror when doing strengthening exercises to make sure you are doing them correctly. “I would not suggest doing intricate exercises at home where you could injure yourself, but rather wall push ups (15 to 20 reps, repeat twice), (or that you) sit on (a) chair and stand back up (10 to 15 reps, repeat twice). “A once-off session with a biokineticist would be ideal as they could write you a home programme and show you how to execute the exercises correctly at home,” she said. Miller said stretching was as important. She wrote her master’s on this aspect and spent two years researching the topic. “Imagine trying to use an old, dry, rigid elastic band to hold something in place – it has no give. (With) no elasticity left, it just breaks as soon as you add any pressure to it. Correct stretching can prevent your muscles and tendons from becoming that elastic band. “Dynamic stretching before exercise helps warm up the muscle fibres, preparing them for the movement we are expecting of them. Passive stretching after exercise helps the muscle fibres to realign themselves back into the correct formation after we have loaded them and possibly disrupted their formation when we were exercising.” With regards to tips on stretching, Miller said it was a  tough question to answer for everyone, as our bodies are all different and we expect them to perform differently throughout the day depending on our jobs. “For example, someone who is computer based and sitting at the computer all day with not the greatest posture, we do not want that individual stretching their upper back muscles (trapezius, for example) and elongating it further. The chances are those muscles are already overstretched due to incorrect posture position and weak postural muscles. “These individuals would rather need to ensure they stretch their chest muscles (pectoralis major and minor) to counteract their ‘rounded shoulders’ at the computer. “A good hamstring stretch would also be prescribed as their hamstrings are probably tight due to sitting in a chair for eight hours a day. Again, a once-off session with a biokineticist could assist you in prescribing the correct stretching exercises for your body and its ailments,” said Miller. POST