AT THE end of each year, a new group of young adults venture into joining tertiary educational institutions as students at universities, colleges and universities of technology for the first time.  January and February are focussed on student numbers, re-admissions, admissions and acceptance of first-year students at institutions. This process has been complicated, daunting and stressful for many of us. The reasons vary, but a significant reason is that our 26 universities in South Africa do not have enough seats to facilitate our nation's matriculants annually. The number of university student applications far outnumbers each institution's capacity to accommodate our school leavers. At the beginning of 2021, the University of KwaZulu-Natal received almost 10 times the number of seats available for students, even though international media reports stipulated that post the global pandemic, in-person university applications have declined. This is due to an array of web-based qualifications,  which offer short and long programmes, courses, undergraduate degrees and diplomas for students from any location in the world.  Admission and entry requirements vary according to the subject of study. The virtual means of learning has its own set of challenges. This can also leave a student feeling alienated, unguided and void of a university cultural experience which plays a pivotal role when young adults leave home for the first time.  The viability of online qualifications is also dependent on the employment sector and if the corporate or formal sector will confidently employ a scholar that has spent about 3 to 4 years primarily behind a desk void of face-to-face communication skills, social skills and practical experience. Within the South African context, there is a value attached to embracing local cultures and understanding historical and present socio-economic challenges which impact the workplace. The perspective that an international online qualification is inadequate or inappropriate is believed by many in society, which raises further questions of whether one can easily be employed after the successful completion of a virtual educational experience. In addition, the current limited access to electricity and weakening of the rand, which means these qualifications will cost a lot more, also make the online qualification less viable for South Africans. So, in 2023, the challenge to accommodate all learners at tertiary educational institutions persists. Some prestigious South African universities receive more applications than other institutions. The perception that tends to dominate in our society is that admission and a qualification from a prestigious tertiary education are prerequisites for a successful career.  A widely known central feature of a prestigious place of learning is its capacity to recruit the best educators and offer the best resources. But in a country where job recruitment is not only based on merit and career expertise but on racial and gender quotas that aim to rebuild an equitable society that was previously marginalised and or disadvantaged, the benefits of attending a prestigious institution need to be re-evaluated. One needs to fully be aware of the criteria and regulations utilised at these universities when they employ educators. Without this information, we cannot just assume that prestigious institutions offer learners a better educational experience in comparison to other institutions. Further investigation and information is required for us to make fully informed decisions. Another persistent challenge for first-year entry-level students is to attain admission to a degree of their first choice. In recent years, mass media publications have documented the struggle Indian students have had to secure a seat at medical school at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, despite their high-grade matriculant results. But acceptance into other faculties, too, is not guaranteed. Students of different race groups were given places at medical school based on demographics and not only on academic merit.  For many institutions, the need to be equally racially represented in their student population is a priority, which means that achieving high grades does not guarantee entry at a university of your first choice and a seat for your preferred degree course.  In addition, records have disclosed cases of fraudulent and corrupt practices by representatives of universities in South Africa. The fact that the future of one's career is also influenced by political decisions and national socio-economic goals is difficult to comprehend. Wealthy South Africans are choosing to send their matriculant children to reputable international tertiary institutions so that they can attain the qualifications of their preference.  The remaining classes in South Africa have no option but to accept that they may never have complete control over what they get to study and where they learn. The only proactive measure to ensure matriculants have acceptance for their first three preferences of degree or qualification choice is their best effort in grade 12. Inevitably, with the consideration of racial demographics in the selection process, students are forced to become more competitive than ever.  In some instances, cousins and relatives end up wanting and competing for the same seats at university entry level. In families where one child receives acceptance, and another doesn't, there is room for discord and unhealthy rivalry. Often the impact of decisions we have no control over spill into multiple facets of our lives and often leave us questioning fate, religion, the South African educational regulations and the lack of equity and fairness. As a developing society, we need to fully understand our history, our developmental phases and our end goals. Ultimately, we must develop cohesiveness and serve each other appropriately and responsibly.  Perhaps we need to be fully aware of the opportunities, barriers and value of virtual educational qualifications and experiences so that many more learners can attain a tertiary educational qualification. These avenues need to be accessible and viable for South Africans.  Bhoola has a PhD and two Master’s degrees in the social sciences. She is a lecturer, researcher and a freelance writer. Bhoola has been the recipient of awards and academic scholarships throughout her career. Visit www.sheetalbhoola.com  THE POST