Durban — Respublica Student Living has announced its new building, Paton House, its first purpose-built student accommodation in Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal. Paton House is located across the road from the University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg campus. It is a safe and convenient haven for students to advance their studies. Respublica Student Living said that whether your matric results have just come out and you need to start planning for the future or you are returning for the next step in your tertiary career, if you do not already have student accommodation, it’s time to act now. It said that the number of students outnumbers the number of beds for them by 500 000 and that gap is set to grow. To help alleviate this problem, Paton House significantly increases the number of beds on offer. Respublica Student Living managing director Bronwyn Boavida said: “We are incredibly proud to announce that our new building, Paton House, is the first purpose-built student accommodation in Pietermaritzburg. Located just across the road from the University of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg campus, it is a safe and convenient haven for learners to advance their studies.” Respublica Student Living said that accommodation options for students in Pietermaritzburg have always been thin. As a result, students in the area have often found themselves in lodgings that were not conducive to learning. As the first purpose-built student accommodation in the area, Paton House offers students a safe, all-inclusive experience that is designed to give them everything they need to thrive. At Paton House, included in the rent is res-wide unlimited wi-fi, weekly bedroom cleaning, laundry, swimming pool, gym, social areas, safe parking, 24/7 security with guards, camera surveillance and biometric access control and back-up power when the electricity goes out. Paton House is located on Golf Road, an easy walk to any part of the nearby UKZN campus, giving students easy access to their classes and minimising the distance they will need to travel if they leave campus after dark. Moving on to Yale Village in Johannesburg, Respublica Student Living said Pietermaritzburg was not the only place where it was expanding. It said that, historically, Yale Village was leased directly by Wits and all accommodation placements were through that university’s housing office. The lease came to an end, which means that students from any tertiary institution will be able to get accommodation there. Additionally, Yale Village capacity has increased by more than 100%. “We’ve added an extra 700 beds and upgraded the facilities at Yale Village to help ensure that the students there have all the tools necessary to reach their maximum potential,” Boavida said. “In true Respublica style, we offer an all-inclusive lifestyle, which means residents of Yale Village will get access to the same benefits as the residents at any other Respublica facility would get, all at no extra cost.” Moreover, Respublica’s Res Life programme allows students to connect, grow and have fun through a host of activities. Through Res Life, residents will be able to access mental health support, study programmes and social events, among others. “University is an incredibly transitional time in people’s lives. We are happy to be able to provide a growing number of students with the stability they need to achieve the great things that the future has in store for them,” Boavida said. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995. Daily News