Durban – The eThekwini Municipality and Umgeni Water have stated that the city’s water is safe for consumption. This is after messages were circulated on social media alleging that the city’s water was contaminated and landing consumers in hospital. In a Facebook post, the municipality said it was aware of false reports about the city’s water quality. The municipality said: “The city has become aware of false reports circulating on social media claiming that our water is contaminated. The city would like to state categorically that our water is clean, and the public must ignore the disinformation promulgated in this regard. The public is urged to rely only on the information that comes from the city regarding water quality. “We are therefore appealing to all our residents and stakeholders to desist from sharing these false reports on social media or any other platforms.” In a statement, Umgeni Water said that bulk potable water supplied by Umgeni Water meets compulsory South African National Standards 241 requirements and is safe to drink. Umgeni Water said that in the past 24 hours there have been numerous messages and discussions concerning drinking water quality in Durban and whether it is indeed safe for consumption. This was in response to a WhatsApp message concerning cases of gastroenteritis being treated at some hospitals. “Umgeni Water, as the bulk potable (drinking) water service provider to seven municipalities, including the eThekwini Metro, provides an assurance that the water it supplies complies fully with mandatory standards for drinking water quality stipulated in the South African National Standards 241 (SANS 241) for drinking water quality. The water supplied in bulk from all of Umgeni Water’s water treatment plants is, therefore, safe for human consumption,” Umgeni Water said. It said that, for example, in the most recent analysis of water quality results from the Durban Heights and Wiggins water treatment plants – which supply eThekwini Metro the water it needs for vast parts of the Durban region – it was found that there were no microbiological failures; chlorine residuals were adequate and within accepted ranges; there was low turbidity in the final water; and water supplied from these plants complied with the requirements of SANS 241 for drinking water quality. “Umgeni Water’s water treatment processes are both rigorous and thorough. Advanced and sophisticated treatment technologies and chemicals are used to treat raw water to ensure that safe drinking water is produced. Chlorine and chlorine-based compounds are used as disinfectants to efficiently and effectively destroy micro-organisms during the water treatment process,” Umgeni Water said. “In addition, daily monitoring of water quality takes place at all water treatment sites. This occurs as part of initiatives to ensure that 100% compliance with SANS 241 is constant and consistent. Sampling of raw water quality at source, namely catchments and dams, is also part of routine monitoring so that the organisation is aware of the quality of raw water being abstracted.” One of the allegedly false reports, by Visvin Reddy, read that he went to hospital because he was very sick. “I have never experienced anything like this in my life. I had explosive diarrhoea, uncontrolled nausea, vomiting and severe stomach cramps. I tried all the home remedies, including taking Imodium and other meds, but none helped. It just got worse. I got dressed and called two hospitals and both said they are full. I was worried that there may be another Covid surge in infections like what’s happening in China so enquired about the admissions.” Reddy said that he was told by both hospitals that the majority of cases were severe gastroenteritis or stomach bug. He said he then went to a third hospital that agreed to treat him in the trauma unit. There, too, the hospital was full of gastroenteritis admissions. “The doctor that treated me told me something that I have to share. She said that I must stop drinking water from the tap. Huh,” Reddy said. He said that he is a councillor and an Umgeni Water board member, so if the water coming from our taps is contaminated, then he needs to do something about it. If hospitals are filling up, then there is a serious problem, especially if most admissions are all of the similar symptoms. “I've decided to write this message and share my experience with you so as to prevent you from getting sick. I will be contacting the mayor and the Umgeni board chair to immediately conduct testing on the quality of tap water from all reservoirs to confirm whether the water is safe to drink. Until such time as this is done, I urge you to boil water from the taps before drinking it or use bottled water. Stay safe and God bless you,” Reddy said. Daily News