Durban — The Hawks in KwaZulu-Natal, Durban Metro Police Service and a private security company in the Midlands have cracked down on drugs in the province. This comes after the trio reported a number of arrests in separate incidents on Friday. KZN Hawks spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo said that on January 12, 2023, the Hawks members from Newcastle Serious Organised Crime Investigation assisted by the National Intervention Unit, Tactical Response Team, Newcastle Vehicle Crime Investigation and Department of Home Affairs Immigration officer arrested a 37-year-old suspect for dealing in drugs at Van Kampen Ville in Newcastle, northern KZN. Mhlongo said that members received information about the suspect who was dealing drugs in the area and a joint operation was conducted. He said that members swooped on the suspect’s house and a search was conducted. “During the search police found crystal meth, cocaine powder, pieces of crack cocaine and jaw of crack cocaine at a street value of about R290 850.  “An amount of R32 950 suspected to be the proceeds of crime was also confiscated,” Mhlongo said. “The suspect was placed under arrest and charged for dealing in drugs as well as contravention of the Immigration Act. “Seven more undocumented persons aged between 25 and 62 were also arrested in the vicinity,” Mhlongo said. He also said that all arrested suspects were expected to appear in the Newcastle Magistrate’s Court on Friday, January 13, 2023. On Friday metro police spokesperson Boysie Zungu said that after the police service received numerous complaints from the Montford community in Chatsworth, an operation team was set up for the Montford shopping centre in Chatsworth and observation was carried out by Durban metro police officers at Road 736. “One suspected Asian male, 45 years old, was searched and one piece of crack cocaine in his top pocket was found,” Zungu said. “A further search was carried out and 61 heroin capsules were found in the suspect's groin area.” Zungu said that the suspect was taken to Chatsworth police station and charged with being in possession of crack cocaine and heroin. In another incident, metro police said that an African male was arrested for the possession of crack cocaine at Sunset Avenue in Chatsworth. The suspect was processed at Chatsworth police station. Also on Friday, AET Security reported that drug dealers were caught in Howick. AET Security said that while on patrol in the Howick area, their alert rapid response officer witnessed some men in distress. The men reported that they had been robbed and the Toyota Fortuner that the suspects were driving was fleeing the scene, AET Security said. “Quick reaction from the ever-ready AET officers resulted in a high-speed chase through the streets of Howick and into the roads of Merrivale.” It said that the Fortuner dropped off two suspects and AET Security followed on foot and managed to apprehend one of the suspects. Another security company apprehended a second suspect. “These suspects were in possession of large amounts of money and drugs,” AET Security said. “The members then proceeded back to Howick to an undisclosed location where they were able to apprehend a third suspect and recover some more drugs and money.” AET Security said the case was handed over to Howick SAPS. Police have been approached for comment. Daily News