Durban – The South African National Roads Agency SOC Limited (Sanral) has amended its statement on the resumption of the payment of toll fees at N2 uThongathi and uMvoti toll plazas a day after KwaDukuza Local Municipality mayor Lindile Nhaca rejected the reinstatement of toll fees at uMvoti Toll. On Friday, Sanral said that following the completion of repairs to the flood-damaged infrastructure on the R102 and M4 near the N2 uThongathi and uMvoti toll plazas, toll fees on most ramps at these plazas are, with effect from February 1, 2023, no longer suspended. Sanral eastern region manager Dumisani Nkabinde said: “Toll collection will resume on the N2 uThongathi mainline and on the southern ramps, as well as on all ramps at uMvoti toll plaza. Northern ramps toll collection at uThongathi will remain suspended until such time that access at M4 Tongati River Bridge has been restored. This will ensure that the local community affected by the M4 closure at Tongati River Bridge can continue to use the N2 toll road for the affected section at no cost.” Toll fees were suspended by Sanral at these plazas in April last year to ease the economic burden on communities already hard hit by the loss of property and livelihoods as a result of the devastating floods that swept through KZN at the time. Sanral said that the alternative routes to the toll plazas, the R102 and M4, were so badly damaged that road users were compelled to use uThongathi and uMvoti toll plazas on the N2 to get around. “Our contractors have been working round the clock to repair damaged infrastructure and restore access to the R102 and M4. Both these roads are now fully open to traffic and access to the uThongathi River Bridge is imminent. We wish to thank road users for their patience during this time and wish them safe travels,” Nkabinde said. In a statement issued on Thursday, Nhaca objected to the reinstatement of toll tariffs at uMvoti Toll Plaza based on factors which she says could compromise the integrity of alternative routes and the economy. Nhaca used the council sitting to outline the steps that she has taken in dislodging the “hasty” consideration by Sanral. She pointed out to council members that “the reintroduction of the tariffs could only add unnecessary pressure to provincial roads and bridges which are due for repairs by the department.” The mayor on behalf of the council has since addressed a formal objection to Sanral. Nhaca in her letter to Sanral highlights challenges that could lead to a possible disruption to the economy and much more. “In the spirit of corporative governance, I write on behalf of council to categorically object your consideration to reinstate the payment of toll tees on the uMvoti Toll Plaza on the N2, believing that this could lead to unprecedented instability of our economy and disruption of livelihoods as a result of the anticipated congestions on these routes especially the R102 since it is an alternative route of the N2.” Nhaca also pointed out that the decision by Sanral could be hasty. “While we appreciate the significant progress achieved on the M4 in easing the congestion that was experienced at the aftermath of the floods, we equally wish to extend our heartfelt concern on your hasty consideration to reinstate the payment of toll fees at uMvoti Toll Plaza in the knowledge that the alternative route (R102) linking KwaDukuza and eThekwini has not yet been fully restored. “True to form, the R102 and P103 are one of our mainstream economic facilitators and form part of our key avenues for the growth of our commercial industries. In addition, these routes continue to play a pivotal role in our economy as they empower business, service delivery and improve livelihoods. Both routes were heavily affected by the floods and remain albatross to KwaDukuza and its people,” Nhaca said. She said that the R102 recorded one of the biggest structural shocks with the collapse of the Etete Bridge as well as the Compensation Bridge along the P103. “You will note that the makeshift repairs on the P103 bridge (along Rain-farm), as well as the Compensation bridge along the R102, were both voluntarily funded by the local business community,” Nhaca said. She said that on September 15 last year, iLembe Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Tourism president Andy Horton took her on a tour to both sites, where he afforded her the opportunity to appreciate their efforts as a business community. Their efforts have accordingly enabled the operation of the R102 and P103. “I make such emphasis knowing that both routes, the R102 and P103 are a responsibility of the KZN Department of Transport and engagements to that effect have so far been facilitated at various levels,” Nhaca said. She also brought the following points to Sanral’s attention: “I trust that you will take into account the above points and consider a possible deferment of the toll fees on the uMvoti Toll Plaza in the knowledge that the reinstatements of the toll fees may result in more traffic being diverted on the R102 and P103 while the two routes still require attention from the Department of Transport. This will add more chapters to the deteriorating state of our delicate infrastructure and contribute negatively to the growth of the economy,” Nhaca concluded. Daily News