Durban — The IFP has demanded that the killers of children be severely punished, and that justice be served swiftly to deter other would-be child murderers. Philasande Shange’s mutilated remains were found days after he went missing while playing with other children in Ntshawini, KwaDukuza last Thursday. Family and neighbours had embarked on a search for the little boy, but after four days of frantically searching for him, a few parts of his dismembered body were found in the Ntshawini area on Sunday. The KwaZulu-Natal IFP spokesperson for social development MPL Les Govender said the killing of children had to be condemned in the strongest possible terms. “In a civilised country, we cannot allow our children to be abducted and killed while we remain silent. Government must act without any further delay to prevent our country from becoming a slaughterhouse,” he said. Govender said one could not keep children under “house arrest” and forbid them from playing outside because we fear for their safety at the hands of morally bankrupt people. “These people have lost the spirit of ubuntu and should have no place in society. The IFP is clear and unapologetic that killers of children must be severely punished and given the maximum sentence that the law allows,” he said. Govender said such people had to be weeded out of our society, even if it meant existing legislation had to be amended. Govender said children who experienced their friends being kidnapped and/or murdered suffered long-term psychological effects. “Being socialised in an environment of fear affects their conduct and behaviour in the community, thereby leading to a culture of perpetual violence. We must not allow our children to grow up thinking that such violence is a part of daily life.” He added: “The IFP is concerned about traditional healers who are allegedly making use of human body parts for muti purposes. “This cannot be condoned, and anyone found to be masquerading as a traditional healer and using human body parts must be thrown into prison. “The IFP calls for the ongoing protection of children, which must be made a 365-days-a-year project. We must not wait for ‘16 Days of Activism’ to create greater awareness of the violence being perpetrated against women and children. “We urge parents to ensure the safety of their children by always being aware of their whereabouts and who they associate with,” Govender concluded. Daily News