Durban — Although the exact time of the drowning is yet to be determined by police, the body of a fisherman who is believed to have gone missing while fishing was recovered on Sunday morning. IPSS Medical Rescue managing director Dylan Meyrick said that IPSS Medical Search and Rescue teams, along with SAPS K9 units, recovered the body of a fisherman who drowned in the Tinley Manor river mouth in the early hours of Sunday morning. Meyrick said that, according to witnesses, the man was casting his net when he disappeared below the water. His fellow fisherman was unable to locate him, and IPSS was alerted. “IPSS Medical Search and Rescue has handed the body over to the local SAPS for further investigation,” Meyrick said. “Our condolences go out to the friends and family of the fisherman.” Medi Response spokesperson Paul Herbst said the Medi Response search and rescue division went to Tinley Manor lagoon after receiving reports of a drowning. Herbst said that Medi Response was informed of the incident on Sunday morning and mobilised search and rescue units. “Crews launched search and rescue resources to try to locate the man, and after a short while his body was located and recovered,” Herbst said. He said the SAPS had been in attendance and would investigate further. Police have been approached for comment. Commenting on the incident on Facebook, Rhona Reggie Naidoo said: “Was on scene, interacted directly with IPSS. I would like to extend my gratitude to the IPSS team for their immediate response, and the effort put into recovering the body and giving the family closure. Thank you, guys, may you forever be blessed.” Meanwhile, last year the body of the fisherman who was swept away while trying to cross a canal was recovered by local anglers in the south of Durban. It was reported that the fisherman, 74, had been fishing when he attempted to cross the canal and was swept out to sea. Witnesses reported that they had seen the man drown before he disappeared from sight. The Cuttings Fishing Forum said: “Body has been found this morning (Tuesday) by the local anglers who went out to search for the body.  “These were some dedicated fishing buddies to the deceased. It was almost a 1km walk back to get telephone reception to notify the search and rescue.” Daily News