Durban - A Durban mother has alleged that the eThekwini Municipality has not been completely transparent about the purification of tap water.  She believes that her 4-year-old son was hospitalised for five days due to E coli contamination. Laura Garibdass, from Shallcross, claimed that the only way her son, Yash, became contaminated by E coli was through consuming tap water from their home. Garibdass said Yash became ill on December 16 and was admitted to Life Chatsmed Garden Hospital on December 21.  A specialist paediatrician’s medical report, which the Sunday Tribune has seen, stated that Yash had been admitted with sinobronchitis and persistent gastroenteritis. His stools showed the presence of enteropathogenic E coli (a type of E coli ba cteria that causes diarrhoea) which required five days in hospital to clear. He was discharged on December 25.  Garibdass said initially Yash became lethargic and lost his appetite. “I treated him at home because no one wants to be in hospital over the festive period. December 18 was his birthday; he had a fever which worsened the next day,” she said.  “We waited for a bed at the hospital and on December 21 he was admitted. I thought it was just pneumonia, but when the results showed E.coli I was shocked. He also tested positive for adenovirus (which can cause cold-like symptoms), ” she said.  She said her son had also suffered from diarrhoea and his condition improved when he returned from hospital. “After he was discharged, the municipality posted (on social media) that tap water was safe to consume and I responded stating that my son had E coli.  This week I emailed the Water and Sanitation department. Someone from the municipality within the Chatsworth district came to my home and took a sample of the water from my kitchen tap.  I haven’t received the results yet. Yash didn’t visit the beach and was only at home or at school. The only place he could have been contaminated would have been at home where he used a large volume of water,” she said.  “He suffered so much. There should be warnings to say it’s not only the beach that’s contaminated, and that there’s a possibility that tap water may not be 100% safe. I was gullible and trusted that the tap water was safe. “I have laid a complaint with the South African Human Rights Council (SAHRC) and complained to the municipality. I will consider taking this further. I don’t trust the municipality.  “Even though they took a sample from my home in January, the problem occurred in December, so it won’t be an accurate report. I hope they take responsibility and test the water so this can be avoided. Now I boil water at home for him to bath, and he drinks bottled water,” said Garibdass. EThekwini municipality did not respond to questions regarding the child’s medical records, while the SAHRC said it would comment next week. SUNDAY TRIBUNE