Durban - S’bu Mpisane is convinced that a hit has been placed on him, but has no idea who wants him dead. This follows a shooting that occurred at his residence in La Lucia last week on Saturday.  He shares the home with his former wife, celebrity businesswoman Shauwn Mkhize, the daughter of late ANC veteran anti-apartheid activist Florence Mkhize. Although divorced, Mpisane occupies the far-left wing of the house, while Mkhize lives in the other end. The duo were known for their flamboyant lifestyle and flashy cars, and they threw lavish parties when they married.  They bought two nearby properties to extend their house into an eye-catching mansion that is monitored by heavily-armed security guards at all times. However, that did not deter the suspects. Speaking to the Sunday Tribune, Mpisane said that his attackers should be charged with conspiracy to commit murder.  He was adamant that it was not a case of robbery but an attempted hit on his life. Mpisane, a former metro police officer, did not want to elaborate on who would want him dead, or provide details of his security, stating that the matter had been handed over to the police for further investigation.  He said the suspects were able to enter the residence using two keys, which have also been given to the SAPS. Mpisane said this was the fourth time that the same men had come into his home and they were seen on the property twice last month. They abandoned their mission when they couldn’t find him, he said.  He said in one instance he found a suspect hiding under his bed and he handed him over to the police. Mpisane said that on Saturday, last week, the men were again able to gain access to his home and he found them drinking his alcohol. A shooting ensued when one of the suspects pointed his firearm at him, but his gun jammed and he (Mpisane) allegedly fired at the man, injuring him.  The other two suspects escaped. Provincial spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Netshuinda confirmed the incident.  “Police in Durban North are investigating a case of housebreaking following an incident in which three suspects allegedly gained access to a house in La Lucia,” he said. Netshuinda said the shooting began after an encounter between the owner of the house and the intruders.  “The owner of the house reportedly found the suspects inside his house, and one of the suspects cocked a gun and the owner retaliated. One suspect was injured, and the other two reportedly escaped unharmed,” said Netshuinda.  He said that the injured suspect was shot in the leg and was treated at the scene prior to being transported to hospital. The police were yet to determine the cause of the shooting. The suspect is due to make an appearance in the Durban Magistrate’s Court tomorrow.  Mkhize, who remained in the public eye because of her reality series in which she gave viewers insight into her lifestyle, said the incident didn’t affect her as it happened in the wing where Mpisane lived. “Thank you all for the messages of concern but, as you are all aware, I am separated from Sbu Mpisane.  The incident that took place on Saturday doesn’t involve me or my wing of the estate,” she said in response to questions sent by the Sunday Tribune. It is believed that Mkhize wasn’t at home when the commotion happened but was later seen at Max’s Lifestyle in uMlazi. Residents in La Lucia were also alerted to the shooting because of the gunshots and weren’t convinced that there was a robbery at the home.  Nicole Bollman, the councillor in the area, said she suspected something sinister about the incident. “A shooting with that many rounds was not normal. It was completely abnormal to what we experience in the suburbs here,” she said. Bollman said this was not the first incident of its kind at the Mpisane and Mkhize household.   “There is massive security presence in north Durban and I talk about it being Durban North, uMhlanga and all the way through. This is an anomaly, as we do not have people walking around with firearms or gun battles. “It was traumatic for residents, but given the property that it was coming from, there was a further understanding because over the years there has been a lot of (disturbance) at that property,” she said SUNDAY TRIBUNE