Durban - With just a week left before schools open Sharnez Shawn, formerly of Morningside Primary School, looked forward to starting his high school journey having excelled beyond expectations in grade 7. Sharnez will walk into Durban Boys’ High School having been awarded the highest academic accolade, Dux Award 2022, at his former primary school after having obtained over 90% in aggregate. Sharnez said prayer and consistency are the key, and he would like to soak up every opportunity the high school has to offer him. “I hope what I have to offer DHS will be great, too. I am hoping to follow in the footsteps of a few Morningside Primary School ex-learners who have gone to DHS and have made it to Harvard,” he said.  Looking back on his 2022 achievements, Sharnez explained that special awards he had scooped up included aggregate excellence, champion Scientist, Sciences Cup, Maths and Science combination award for over a period of four years, Languages Combination, junior and senior phase Dramatic Arts Awards as well as the service to school award. Morningside Primary described Sharnez as having excelled exceptionally well since grade one adding that in grade three he took the exceptional learner award and since grade 4 he was the only learner with an aggregate of over 90%. It said that he has both outstanding creative and academic standards, and the level of his Dramatic Arts performance is “to be reckoned with”. Sharnez explained that he was the youngest actor performing at the SA Shakespeare Festival at the Playhouse. “Winning the Elocution Competition in the zone and bringing the trophy to Morningside Primary School was a great achievement. One of my greatest highlights was having my story published in grade 5 and winning the editorial award, which made Morningside Primary proud and stand out in the entire country. Playing the violin and being accepted into Durban High School's music programme for 2023 is something I look forward to,” he said. Daily News Now watch: