Durban — Two men were fined R2 000 each for drinking in public within the uMhlathuze Local Municipality. Ward councillor Henning de Wet said there was another swoop operation on miscreants. De Wet said on Thursday, February 2, the council’s security contractor, SSS Security got the ball rolling on a relentless operation to rid the uMhlathuze central business district of crime. He said the security contractor was later assisted by SAPS and joined by law-enforcement officers from the local traffic department. “The first target was Woonga Park where two suspects found in possession of drugs and two suspected illegal immigrants were arrested,” De Wet said. “The operation proceeded to Alton (Dendustri) where 12 illegal structures were brought down.” De Wet said the services mopped up by bringing down no less than 30 brown canvas tents erected by hairdressers along Bullion Boulevard, Shilling Swing and Metica Moon which is near RB Pawn Brokers, Cash Crusaders, Shoprite and Chester Butchery. Most of the malefactors were foreign nationals. “Two offenders were each charged a hefty R2 000 fine for drinking in public at the parking in front of Cash Crusaders,” De Wet said. The first ticket was issued to a self-employed man, age unknown (who) was fined R2 000 for consuming liquor in public. The man was drinking at a parking lot in Richards Bay. He was fined at 4.45pm after he was found drinking a Windhoek Draught. The second suspect, a 45-year-old unemployed man was also fined R2 000 for consuming liquor on a public road, street or public parking. The incident also happened at a parking lot in Richards Bay also at 4.45pm. The ticket did not specify what drink the man had. Reacting to the fines, this is what Facebook users had to say: Patricia Franklin Greyling said it will be a clean drive down Bullion Boulevard. “Thank you for all that you have done so far to get our city back to the clean state it used to be.” Greyling said drug dealers should be dealt with severely, not just a fine because they have the money to pay. They just shrug their shoulders, pay then go back to business as usual. In China, there is the death penalty for drugs. These druggie dealers harm so many young people. “Get rid of them in our city,” Greyling said. Jacob Olivier said: “Excellent initiative, but unfortunately, who will keep on enforcing this as when I drove past there this morning (Friday) 13 gazebos were back up and running.” MaSothole Ndevini said she was not fascinated by the news because the municipality had failed in getting rid of drug dealers in Richards Bay.  She said the dealers were problematic, especially those that drink. Vagrants were growing in numbers and begging at each and every robot. They are hungry but want money for their next fix. Sicelo Bhengu said: “Good start, you need to be consistent and maintain momentum, those without legal documentation to be in this country, take to Home Affairs/SAPS. Your approach should be all-encompassing and holistic, you need to have Home Affairs, Customs, SAPS, NPA at these campaigns.” Julie Groening Naidoo said: “It’s about time, yippppppeeeee well done to our law-enforcement and all involved.” WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995.  Daily News