Durban — Areas north and south of Durban are experiencing water outages or might experience water outages before the end of the week. That is according to two separate statements by the eThekwini Municipality and Umgeni Water. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said there was an interruption of water supply in parts of uMlazi, south of Durban. Mayisela informed uMlazi residents of a water supply interruption in some parts of the area due to a burst on the 300mm diameter water pipe on the South Coast Bridge over the Umlaas Canal. “Teams are on the ground to undertake tracing and exposing of the burst. Once the burst has been located and exposed within the bridge, appropriate repairs will be immediately undertaken,” Mayisela said. “An assessment of the impact on the bridge structure is also being carried out by city engineers.” Mayisela said new developments in this regard will be communicated in due course. Areas that are affected include the Glebelands Hostel, uMlazi Mega City and the Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital and  surrounding areas, he said. “Water tankers are being dispatched to affected areas,” Mayisela said. The municipality apologises for any inconvenience, he added. For more information regarding water supply, the public can contact the toll-free number 080 311 1111 or use the eThekwini Water and Sanitation WhatsApp number 073 1483 477. Alternatively, email: Eservices@durban.gov.za Meanwhile, Umgeni Water has announced that essential work will be conducted on aqueducts that supply raw water to the Maphephetheni Water Treatment Works in Inanda. Umgeni Water said the Maphephetheni Water Treatment Works in KwaNgcolosi in Inanda will receive reduced volumes of raw water for treatment from Wednesday, February 8, to Friday, February 10. This was to enable essential work to be conducted on the aqueducts that supply raw water to the plant. “The work will involve installing a new DN 700 butterfly valve and associated pipework in a chamber feed to the aqueducts to allow for pumping system tie-ins. The work will begin at 8am on Wednesday, February 8, and end on Friday, February 10, at 4pm,” Umgeni Water said. In preparation for a reduction in the water supply to the Maphephetheni Water Treatment Works and a reduction in potable water production, all reservoirs are being topped up and will be maintained at 90%, it said. “During the period of the work, water supply to the Maphephetheni area – the supply area of the plant – will be reduced and higher-lying areas may experience limited supply or no water. On completion of the work, full supply of water will be restored. “Umgeni Water apologises for any inconvenience that may be caused and provides an assurance that every effort will be made to complete the work within the allocated time-frame,” Umgeni Water added. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News