Durban - The South African Medical Association (SAMA) has called on the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health to be proactive in curbing the impact of the water challenges plagued by the Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital (PMMH). This comes after a burst on a 300 mm diameter pipe in Umlazi which affected supply to PMMH and the surrounding areas. According to chairperson Dr Mvuyisi Mzukwa, it is an unfortunate event that is beyond the Health Department solving, however believes that further intervention could be implemented. “There should be other plans in place to ensure that there is a continued supply of water there, because you can imagine that it affects negatively on the functioning of the wards and theatres,” he said. He said that infection control was also compromised and that it was paramount for the hospital to have a sufficient supply of water, such as water tankers. Speaking in response to the estimated number of days it would take for the repairs to be completed, Mzukwa expressed his disapproval. “When you say ten days, it’s like they are just relaxing, but they should be working 24/7 to restore water and an appropriate answer would be an estimation of 3-5 days,” he said. Mzukwa said that the current state of the hospital was indicative of a collapse of the health system, including that of Ngwelezana Hospital and King Edward. He further called on the KZN DOE to work harder. “I want to say to the Department of Health that they must wake up and smell the coffee because if we continue in this trajectory, we are going to lose lots of lives and introduce infections,” he said. On Wednesday the Mayor of eThekwini Mxolisi Kaunda assessed the interventions being implemented in the interim, while repairs were being carried out. These included alternative supply to two hospital reservoirs by water tankers. He cited that repairs to the burst water pipes could take about ten days to complete for full restoration of water to the hospital and surrounding areas and part of the repairs included rerouting of the pipe to ensure easy access when required. Speaking on long-term solutions, Kaunda said that the City had developed a Water Master Plan which was part of the Provincial Water Master Plan, and that a water infrastructure maintenance levy had been introduced in 2022 and had accumulated R60 million to date, which would be set aside to refurbish and maintain infrastructure. The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for the Department of Health, Nomagugu Simelane has since revealed a contingency plan to mitigate the water challenge: *Water and Sanitation:* ·     Drinking water for patients and staff is being supplied through 5-litre water bottles. ·     30 JoJo Tanks are currently being installed in strategic positions of the hospital, as was the case during the April floods, and this project will be finished by later this evening. ·     A water tanker from the eThekwini Municipality is stationed full time in the hospital and providing water. ·     More tankers have been requested from the municipality, and the indication is that Supply Chain Processes are being finalised in order to secure the provision of more water. ·     Furthermore, the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA) has offered to allocate two water tankers to also assist with refilling of the hospital’s main water reservoir ·     Water tankers with drivers from the various districts throughout the province are also being mobilised to eThekwini district, so that they can assist with filling of the water reservoir in PMMH. ·     Thirty mobile toilets have been hired and are being used to support sanitation services. *Clinical Services:* ·     As of the 7th of February 2023, there are 898 patients currently admitted at PMMH. ·     The hospital is still able to manage booked outpatients attending its outpatient clinics. ·     There are fifty-five (55) orthopaedic patients currently admitted ·     Patients who require orthopaedic care are being shared between RK Khan and Addington hospitals, as additional theatre spaces have been provided in both these hospitals ·     PMMH has continued to manage emergency surgical and maternity cases ·     Four split air-conditioning units are being installed in four theatres, in a process that will be completed this evening, to ensure availability of two emergency obstetrics and gynaecological theatres, as well as two other emergency theatres in the main theatre. ·     The sterilisation of instruments is being done at King Edward and Clairwood hospitals without any problems ·     Laundry and catering services are originally outsourced services and there are no anticipated challenges, with the exception that the catering menu had to be slightly adjusted, as cooking requires steam, which has not been available. Meanwhile, a health professional from the hospital who requested anonymity noted that the management was putting in an effort to address the challenge. “They have got tapped water in the labour ward and in our theatre but it’s from a JoJo tank. The central air conditioner is water dependent. These were not functional since last week and we were operating in theatres of beyond 30 degrees. As of this morning, the back-up air-conditioners have been serviced and put on, but only one theatre is functioning,” they said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE