Durban — Verulam police are investigating charges of murder and attempted murder after a man was shot dead in a hail of bullets and a 10-year-old pupil was caught in the crossfire. Police spokesperson Constable Thenjswa Ngcobo said that a 38-year-old man was shot dead by known people on Wednesday on Trevennen Road, Lotusville, in Verulam. “It is alleged that the victim was travelling in his vehicle when unknown suspects opened fire, fatally wounding him on the head and body. A ten-year-old pupil was hit by a stray bullet on the arm and was taken to hospital for medical attention,” Ngcobo said. Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said that the deceased was a taxi owner. Balram said the incident happened outside Lotusville Primary School. He said that the Rusa operations centre was inundated with calls from residents, witnesses and teachers reporting rapid gunfire. “Some callers informed the controller on duty that the gunfire was directed at a Toyota Hilux bakkie,” Balram said. He said that reaction officers were dispatched and arrived on the scene at approximately 2.23pm. “Officers discovered a bullet-riddled silver Toyota Hilux stationary next to the entrance of the school. The driver sustained multiple gunshot wounds to his head and body. He was declared deceased by medics. Approximately thirty 9mm and high-calibre cartridges from two different rifles were located around the deceased’s vehicle. The taxi owner’s 9mm pistol was located holstered in his waistband,” Balram said. He said the deceased was allegedly at the school to pick up his child. However, this could not be confirmed. Balram said that according to witnesses, the occupants of a silver Mercedes-Benz (registration unknown) were responsible for the murder. He said that several scholars and parents waiting to pick up their children from school fled for cover during the shooting. “A 10-year-old grade 5 learner was struck by a stray bullet. Some pupils sustained bruises after falling. “A white Toyota Quantum crashed through the school fence during the shooting. The driver fled the scene on foot following the incident. Information received is that the taxi belonged to the deceased,” Balram said. He said the Rusa R44 helicopter is currently airborne in search of the suspects. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News