Durban - The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) has expressed its sadness and exasperation at the alarming increase in the number of violent incidents in schools since the start of the 2023 school year.  Sadtu said that the incidents of violence included bullying, suicide, stabbings and shootings. Sadtu general secretary Mugwena Maluleke said that at Geluksdal Secondary School in Brakpan, Gauteng, a Grade 10 pupil was stabbed to death, allegedly by fellow pupils.  “At Kagiso Secondary School, Gauteng, a man allegedly entered the school and took some staff members hostage. He allegedly stabbed and wounded one of the teachers, and was subsequently shot dead by another teacher...” Maluleke added that bullying was allegedly the cause of death of a 17-year-old pupil in KwaZulu-Natal. “At Sonyongwane High School, southern KwaZulu Natal, a 17-year-old Grade 11 learner committed suicide allegedly because of bullying by her schoolmates who constantly told her she was ugly and teased her about the shape of her head. At Ntsu Secondary School in Bethlehem, Free State, the school principal allegedly used corporal punishment on a learner who had allegedly skipped detention.” He said at a number of schools sexual assault and harassment of pupils by teachers was still prevalent.  “This group of unprofessional sex pests continue to damage the profession. It is only counter-revolutionaries who can engage in this kind of violence against our children in our schools. These incidents clearly indicate that schools are no longer safe havens they are supposed to be, but they endanger the lives of learners as well as teachers.” Maluleke said bullying at schools remained a big concern.  “On dealing with issues of bullying, which allegedly led to learners committing suicide, teachers are not able to deal decisively with such issues as it is not easy to identify individual challenges of learners in overcrowded classrooms.  “Sadtu is calling for the creation of safe spaces for learners to confide in teachers about the issues they face. We again reiterate our call for dedicated psychosocial services in schools. Our schools do not have enough infrastructure to ensure learners, teachers, and communities do not bring weapons to schools. We call for properly trained security personnel to oversee security in schools.” The union also called on communities and parents, to be involved in schools in their neighbourhoods through the union’s “I am A School Fan” campaign. “The campaign calls on all stakeholders to make schools safe havens, stop violence against teachers and learners, stop vandalising schools, keep schools safe and clean and build a caring society.” THE MERCURY