Durban - A wanted suspect who committed a string of robberies in the Blue Lagoon area in Durban was arrested after a shoot-out with armed response officers on Monday, according to Marshall Security. The security company’s managing director, Tyron Powell, said that at 5.40am the Marshall Security Emergency Dispatch Centre received reports via a WhatsApp crime alert group of an armed robbery at the Blue Lagoon park. “Two members of the public had been held up at gunpoint by two suspects who had robbed them of their cellphone while on their morning walk,” he said. Powell said multiple armed response officers were immediately dispatched and a detailed description and the last known location of the suspects were relayed to their team. He said members immediately went in search of the suspects and spotted them a few minutes later on a well-known golf course on Masabalala Yengwa Avenue. The armed response officers immediately gave chase while the Durban Central SAPS were informed, he said. “During the chase, the armed suspects fired multiple shots towards our officers. Our officers then returned fire for their own safety. “After a lengthy foot chase, one suspect was eventually apprehended on the golf course in a small bush, and upon searching him the cellphone that was taken during the armed robbery was found in his possession,” said Powell. The second suspect was chased into a nearby dense bush, said Powell, while he continued to fire shots towards the officers. “Whilst searching the area for the suspect, a firearm with one live round as well as a laptop was recovered where it had been abandoned,” he said. Powell said the crime scene was secured and handed over to the Durban Central SAPS who arrived on scene a short while later. “The Durban K9 Unit arrived on scene as well to assist in searching for the outstanding wanted suspect, but after searching for hours he unfortunately managed to evade arrest,” he said. Upon further investigation, Powell said the firearm that was recovered was reported to be stolen, and it is unknown at this stage where the laptop that was recovered had been stolen from. “The suspect was transported to Durban Central SAPS and will be facing charges of armed robbery, attempted murder, possession of an unlicensed firearm, possession of ammunition, as well as being in possession of suspected stolen items,” he said. THE MERCURY