Durban – Three months on and there’s been no mention of four accused being linked to the kidnapping case that police said they were to be connected to following their arrest in a sting operation. Siphesihle Hlongwane, Sithabiso Shandu, Siphamandla Sithole and Mondli Gumede were arrested after a shootout with police on Dumisani Makhaye Highway last year.  The shootout unfolded during a kidnapping sting operation. It is alleged that contact had been made with the family for a ransom of R350 000 and a kidnapping case was opened. A task team was formed to trace the suspects and a sting operation was set up for the drop-off of a ransom of R40 000 on Dumisani Makhaye Highway. The State alleges that the team noticed a Toyota Yaris parked at the arranged meeting spot after one of the suspects contacted the relative asking for the money. The occupants of the vehicle then began shooting at the officers. When police returned fire, two of the suspects were hit. It is alleged that there was a firearm and one round of ammunition in the car. The four accused, released on bail last year, appeared in the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday charged with attempted murder and being found in possession of a firearm and ammunition without a licence. Since their release on bail they have appeared in court three times and each time the ballistics report has been outstanding and there has been no mention of the four being linked to the kidnapping. At the time of their bail application, the investigating officer, Warrant Officer Musa Ngcamu, said in an affidavit that Hlongwane, 22, was to be linked with the kidnapping. He also said that the cellphones of Shandu, 25, Sithole, 25, and Gumede, 24, were taken to link the accused to the alleged abduction. In court on Tuesday, State prosecutor Nomcebo Xulu said that along with the ballistics report, the crime residue results were also outstanding. She said witness statements had been filed. According to police, the kidnapping relates to an Inanda case in which the victim was found and the vehicle recovered. The case was adjourned to March. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News