Durban - The Mhlathuze Water senior management reported to uMkhanyakude District officials and its technical services committee that much progress has been made in reviving water infrastructure in the region, which has been engulfed by water shortages. Mhlathuze Water supplies bulk water to municipalities and industries in northern KwaZulu-Natal. The bi-lateral talks to discuss the much-needed life-giving water for the destitute communities was attended by board chairperson Thabi Shange, interim CEO Dr Simo Lushaba, and uMkhanyakude mayor councillor Siphile Mdaka. The Mhlathuze Water delegation said that much work still lay ahead but promised that soon the project will see taps beginning to flow throughout the district. Maphumulo said that under the first phase of the project, which began in December 2022, Mhlathuze Water  managed to  restore the flow of water to nine wards in the Big Five Hlabisa and Jozini local municipalities by rehabilitating an elevated steel water tank, pipelines. The installation of a booster pump in the areas of Sikhemelele and Mtikini restored the flow of water there.  A pump station in the Mgabadeli area was also refurbished. Lushaba said the water utility was now beginning to tackle larger bulk water infrastructure projects. “This work will include repairs to existing reservoirs and boreholes, the construction of new telemetry pump stations, installation of elevated tanks and the extension of the existing pipe network to improve household water reticulation,” Maphumulo said. Mdaka urged Mhlathuze Water to hasten their intervention in this region.  “It is inconceivable that a district which houses one of the biggest dams, Jozini Dam, should be deprived of water. In the course of this project, there must be participation by local contractors and the use of local labour, thus enabling job creation and skills transfer,” he said. Mhlathuze Water's involvement in uMkhanyakude follows a directive issued by the Minister of Water and Sanitation, Senzo Mchunu, that it should assist that district by developing water infrastructure to improve its capacity to deliver household water reticulation in the area.