Durban — As students make their way to universities, Fidelity Services Group has offered advise on how students can keep themselves safe on campus. The Group’s security specialists said it was important for those living and working on university campuses to apply basic security rules to stay safe. They need to take the same precautions they take while at home when they leave for university. The group said that typical forms of campus crime include theft and robbery, students can also become victims of more sinister crimes such as sexual assault and kidnapping. Fidelity Services Group marketing and communication head Charnel Hattingh said criminals were particularly interested in students for several reasons.  She said that students have laptops, computers, cellphones, i-pods and other gadgets - items that are light, portable and easy for a criminal to sell and convert into cash. “It is essential that every student learns how to stay safe wherever they are on campus. The basic rules of crime prevention apply to everyone in a higher education environment,” Hattingh said. She explained that crime prevention was the anticipation, recognition and appraisal of a crime risk, and the initiation of some action to remove or reduce this risk. Hattingh recalled the 2004 abduction and subsequent murder of student Lee Matthews from a university campus in Sandton, Hattingh said safety in parking areas was of paramount importance. “Never offer lifts to strangers or pick up hitchhikers. Have your keys in your hand when you approach your vehicle so that there is no hesitation upon entering the car. Even if your car is locked, check the front and back seats before you get in,” Hattingh advised. “If you leave campus and suspect you are being followed, immediately drive to the nearest police station or busy public area, where you should stay in the vehicle with the doors locked and phone the police or a family member for help. “Take note of the registration and make and model of the car you think has been following you. Take a photograph if possible,” Hattingh added. Hattingh recognised that socialising was a big part of student life but urged students to keep safety top of mind at all times when they were out to enjoy themselves. The sad reality of gender-based violence in South Africa was that sexual predators see opportunity in social environments. “Be particularly aware that alcohol and drugs interfere with your ability to make clear decisions and communicate effectively,” Hattingh said. “Perpetrators are often not strangers but even if you know the person, it is never acceptable to use force in sexual situations. “If you feel unsafe or think you may be at risk, leave the situation immediately. It is always best to go out in a group with friends you trust and to stick together. Don’t accept drinks from strangers and watch your drinks at all times.” Tips for on-campus safety in your residence: “University is such an exciting step for young adults. Many students embark on this journey completely solo and it can be overwhelming and scary,” Hattingh said. “To ensure your experience is memorable for the right reasons, mix with people who are like-minded about personal safety and who you can rely on in an emergency. “Knowing and exercising the basics of crime prevention can go a long way towards preventing crime. However, no matter how good our knowledge, maximum benefits will only be achieved if we make crime prevention a habit,” Hattingh concluded. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News