Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal provincial government has announced that it would offer bursary opportunities to qualifying students in the province. KZN Premier Nomsa Dube-Ncube said the bursary offered students the opportunity to study any undergraduate course. Speaking in a video posted on the KZN government’s Facebook page, Dube-Ncube said bursary applications were available on the KZN government’s official website and said the applicants to confirm their tertiary application status must contact the Central Application Office. “The KwaZulu-Natal provincial government offers bursaries for qualifying students to study for any undergraduate qualifications, the closing date of this bursary is March 31,” she said. Meanwhile, the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) has confirmed that the application for funding to study this year was officially closed yesterday.  The NSFAS board chairperson Ernest Khosa encouraged all those who had applied for NSFAS funding for 2023 to log onto their myNSFAS accounts and track their applications. Khosa said they received more than 1.6 million applications for funding for this year which was a record high, and said overall they had already funded 613 000 with 275 000 newly funded applicants. Khosa also said there were new platforms created for applicants to check their applications. “We have launched new platforms such as the NSFAS WhatsApp and USSD to help students track their application statuses. We hope students will use these platforms effectively to engage with us. “We have also seen that students are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, and they easily give their personal information to fraudsters. We, therefore, want to appeal to students that they must not share their personal information with anyone. Students must always remember that no one from NSFAS will ask you for your pin,” he said. Khoza urged students to ensure they completed their applications as they had seen instances where some created an account on the MYNSFAS portal thinking they had completed the application. He said students should ensure that they complete their application to enable NSFAS to process their application. THE MERCURY