Durban — The DA in KwaZulu-Natal has called on Community Safety and Liaison MEC Sipho Hlomuka to step up and take back control of the province as crime reaches unprecedented levels, turning the province into a war zone. DA KZN community safety and liaison spokesperson Sharon Hoosen said the released crime statistics for the third quarter of 2022 – October to December – showed that criminals were laying siege to the province and innocent people were being attacked and killed daily. She said that every time the crime statistics were released, KZN featured in the top 30 SAPS stations countrywide for rape and murder cases, while Inanda SAPS remained the country’s rape capital with the highest number of cases reported. She said KZN had also experienced far too many brutal murders in recent months. During the third quarter, the province contributed the highest percentage, with 24.1% of all murders countrywide. “The recent spate of shootings in Florida Road, Mariannhill and Estcourt is further testimony to the fact that no place is safe in KZN, particularly for our women, children and most vulnerable,” Hoosen said. Things that stood out from the recent statistics: “The statistics do not lie, and this ANC-run provincial government can no longer remain silent,” Hoosen said. She said criminals have free rein – a clear indication that SAPS has lost the battle against crime. Yet the problems were plain to see: Hoosen said that the DA had consistently raised these issues. However, there had been no attempt to ensure that they were resolved and to ensure that KZN had a strong, highly trained and focused police force. Instead, there was shocking apathy from the very individuals who were supposed to ensure people’s safety. “At the heart of the problem lies a minister of police who needs to clock out. If he had any conscience at all, he would have done so long ago, given his ongoing abysmal performance,” Hoosen said. “The DA expects MEC Hlomuka to put pressure on his national counterparts. The core problems within KZN’s SAPS must be urgently addressed. We also expect to see the introduction of serious crime-fighting initiatives. “The alternative is that citizens will start taking the law into their own hands. This is not something we want to see in our communities,” Hoosen said. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News