Durban - eThekwini Municipality is battling to collect revenue for services rendered, with its outstanding consumer debt having ballooned by R3 billion in just six months. In June last year, the City debt book was standing at around R19bn, and by December last year it had shot up to R22bn. The runaway consumer debt has been on an upward trajectory despite the municipality claiming it had a 95% collection rate. DA councillor Warren Burne warned that these debt levels, coupled with other financial losses, were dangerous for the municipality and councillors had to do something to “turn around this sinking ship”. He was speaking as the full council tabled its mid-year budget performance assessment report. A report on the issue tabled before the council said concerns were raised surrounding the collection of revenue, which, according to some councillors, seemed to be moving at a snail’s pace. It added that with regard to government department debts, there was a payment arrangement that had been entered into and it was anticipated the collection rate (for government debt) would increase. “What we have in front of us, the state of the city in December 2022, is actually quite horrifying,” Burne said. “The amount owed to the municipality as of December was R22.3bn; at the end of June, which was six months earlier, the figure was R19.2 bn. It went up R3bn in six months. We are going backwards at a rapid rate in the amounts being owed to the municipality. “Of the R22bn owed, around R16bn is owed by households, those are people living in the suburbs who are not paying their metro bills, these are staggering figures,” said Burne. Burne touched on other mounting financial problems, saying the amount for water losses was growing; the City was failing to spend the money set aside for repairs, which meant repairs were not being done. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said the economic situation in the country and the increasing cost of living meant some people could not afford to pay, and in eThekwini the number of people owing was on the rise. “It’s not easy for the number to drop due to the increasing cost of living; power outages are causing business people to lose their livelihoods, others are losing their jobs, while still others are on short-time, all these things are contributing to the problem.” Nkosi said it was important for the government to intervene and reduce the escalating cost of things like petrol, that were contributing to the problem of affordability. He said the cash crunch for residents had left people having to choose between buying things they needed to live, or paying bills. ACDP councillor Jameel Essop said the municipality had failed to put pressure on government departments that owe the municipality millions. “The ACDP had also asked the eThekwini Municipality to fix the billing system. The residents of eThekwini should not be disconnected from any services because they are in arrears, especially when the municipality is failing to provide basic services and improve infrastructure.” Democratic Liberal Congress leader Patrick Pillay described the increase in consumer debt as “alarming”, saying the situation called for urgent innovative interventions by the government. “There are various factors that have contributed to the increase in consumer debt. The increase in unemployment, coupled with high fuel prices, high interest rates and high food price increases have brought about immense hardships for families. “People are struggling to make ends meet. People who solely rely on government social grants for their well-being are finding it tough to pay off their utilities,” he said. ANC councillor Nkosenhle Madlala said the City had faced Covid-19, the July unrest and last April’s floods, which had seen many people lose their livelihoods. “This affects their ability to pay for their utilities, as most of them joined the indigent register,” said Madlala. “Despite these challenges, eThekwini has one of the best collection rates among the metros. The collection rate for the 2021/2022 financial year was 95%. “Notwithstanding the high collection rate, the municipality has implemented various interventions to collect outstanding amounts, including the implementation of the debt-relief programme,” he said. THE MERCURY