Durban - MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison in KwaZulu-Natal Sipho Hlomuka says a report from the provincial police commissioner General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi, has indicated that experienced teams of investigators have been assigned to probe the murders of Kiernan Forbes and Tebello “Tibz” Motsoane in Florida Road and a traditional leader inkosi Zwelakhe Ndaba in Estcourt. Rapper Kiernan Forbes, who was known as AKA, and Motsoane were shot dead on Florida Road in Durban on Friday.  In an unrelated incident prominent traditional leader on the same day, traditional leader Inkosi Ndaba of eNtabamhlophe in Estcourt was shot dead at his home. Speaking following the murders in a statement on Saturday, Hlomuka said he had confidence in the police and urged them to bring the perpetrators to book swiftly “We cannot surrender the freedom and safety of our people to criminals. What we are witnessing in our province is totally unacceptable and police have assured us that they are working around the clock to arrest these criminals. We are confident that the police will win this battle.” The MEC said police visibility on Florida Road would be improved and the department would work with eThekwini Metro Police as well as other security structures to protect patrons of restaurants and residents. “We will also be working with the business community in the area to pro-actively address levels of crime,” he said. Hlomuka said with regard to the murder of Inkosi Ndaba, government was attending to the security issue and the killing of amakhosi. “Again, we urge the communities to work with the police and share information in the two painful incidents. We also convey our heartfelt condolences to the Forbes and Ndaba families,” said Hlomuka. He said government was attending to all crime hot spot areas and prioritising murder capitals with additional resources and deployment of police members. Operations are going to be conducted as part of the security plans, including in areas such as Clermont and KwaMashu hostel, he added. The department said police had also prioritised the rooting out of illegal firearms. “In a space of three weeks, police recovered 81 illegal firearms and arrested 24 suspects. More than 2 573 suspects were arrested in total for various crimes. Of those, 36 were arrested for murder.” THE MERCURY