Durban - The Premier of KwaZulu-Natal Nomusa Dube-Ncube has commended Diageo SA for their role played towards the upliftment and growth of the province’s schools. Dube-Ncube was speaking at Zwelibanzi High School in Umlazi, south of Durban on Wednesday, at the launch of the Diageo-sponsored Water For Tomorrow project, in partnership with a non-governmental organisation Triple P.  This is an innovative water conservation project aimed at addressing the water leakages at predominantly underserved schools. This project also ensures that community-based artisans such as plumbers and school caretakers are empowered to run the project. A total of 17 schools in Isipingo, KwaMakhutha and Umlazi benefited from the programme in the previous year. For 2023, however, a further 15 schools in Umlazi are expected to benefit from the project. Dube-Ncube commended Diageo SA for their commitment to being responsible corporate citizens of South Africa, not only in words but in deeds. Highlighting the success of the project, Premier Dube-Ncube said it has resulted in the saving of 14 million litres of potable water per year, which is about 800 000 litres of water that would have been lost per school per year due to water leakages. The premier said research findings about water wastage, through leakages, paint a bleak and alarming picture in South Africa. Water leaks are responsible for 37% of potable water loss in the country and eThekwini Municipality has recorded losses of at least 50% of its potable water due to leaks. “Schools in underserved communities are the most affected by water leaks and the severe water loss increases the schools’ water bills which most schools cannot afford. This project of fixing water has provided employment opportunities to qualified and experienced unemployed plumbers, including providing skills development and training.  We urge community members to desist from destroying water infrastructure because it impacts negatively on the provision of service delivery. Those who vandalise school infrastructure must be reported to authorities so that they can face the full might of the law,” said Premier Dube-Ncube. The managing director of Diageo SA, Gavin Pike, encouraged all South Africans to ensure that they use water sparingly. “An average of 800 000 litres of water saved per each of the 17 schools we are partnering with this year, is the contribution we are making as Diageo SA to the national effort to save water,” he said. The principal of Zwelibanzi High School Sibusiso Maseko expressed his gratitude to the company for including his school in the project. “This project will help us address the challenge of water losses and ensure that schooling is not disrupted. In order to maintain our status as one the best-performing schools, we need as minimal disruptions as possible. We thank Diageo SA for including us in their programme,” he said. Diageo is global brand in beverage alcohol, with a portfolio of brands consisting of Johnnie Walker, Crown Royal, J&B, Buchanan’s and Windsor whiskies, Smirnoff, Ciroc and Ketel One vodkas, Captain Morgan, Baileys, Don Julio, Tanqueray and Guinness and many more, with their beverages sold in more than 180 countries. SUNDAY TRIBUNE