Durban — A protected reptile species was one of several reptiles packaged and scheduled to be delivered to KwaZulu-Natal from Pretoria. The South African Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre said that Wednesday, February 8, 2023, was quite an eventful and productive day in terms of the ongoing fight against the poaching and illegal trade of our indigenous wildlife. The centre said that a PostNet branch in Pretoria contacted local snake catchers for assistance, as staff realised that one of the parcels scheduled for delivery to KZN contained suspicious contents. It said that the plea for assistance reached their Pretoria Snake Removal WhatsApp group, and one of their dedicated permitted rescuers made her way through to PostNet premises. “The contents of the suspicious packages contained several individually packed reptiles, including protected Sungazer lizards (Smaug giganteus), also known as “Ouvolk”. These magnificent reptiles are very sought-after in both the pet and traditional medicine trade, locally and overseas. Despite their “Vulnerable” conservation status, they are still illegally harvested by poachers. This species is protected under the ToPS (Threatened or Protected Species) Act,” the centre said. It said that getting caught with any ToPS species illegally requires a criminal arrest (as it is beyond paying a mere fine for an offence of this nature). A criminal inquest is therefore opened, and the offender(s) are required to appear in court. “To make matters even worse, the parcel also contained some Van Dam's Girdled Lizards, which are Schedule II of the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES),” the centre said. It said that their quick-thinking wildlife rescuer sought help once she realised the extent of what she was dealing with, and members of the Gauteng Department of Agricultural and Rural Development / Nature Conservation in Gauteng were contacted to assist. “While waiting for the authorities, the sender of the parcel arrived back at the PostNet branch, as he had been contacted regarding a snake that had escaped from one of the parcels, which he had dropped off. Turmoil ensued as various role-players (who had been contacted) quickly pulled together to corner the suspects while our rescuer hid with the animals until the authorities were on site. The two suspects were subsequently arrested on the scene,” the centre said. “The necessary legal steps were taken, and a thorough search of the sender’s premises was scheduled. The search yielded several more illegal animals. These included further ToPS species being found - A young Southern African python (Python natalensis) as well as some Bullfrogs – Pyxicephalus sp.). A Boomslang, monitor lizards, chameleons and other reptiles were also confiscated. Adding to the long list of offences committed, the offenders will also be charged for attempting to send / transport wildlife in this manner.” The centre said that the suspects are expected to appear in court on Friday, and if they are found guilty in terms of the National Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act 10 of 2004, Section 57(1), they can possibly face a fine of R10m and/or a 10-year jail sentence. Reacting to the incident, Durban snake catcher Nick Evans said he loved seeing good news like this, and it was all destined for someone in KZN. “I hope all involved are punished. Congratulations to all who played their part in this success story,” Evans said. “Reptiles face many threats, such as the development of habitat etc, but this is another problem for certain species. Infuriates me, to say the least.” WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News