Durban – eThekwini mayor Mxolisi Kaunda has announced that the City has commenced work to rehabilitate the M4 Inkosi Albert Luthuli Highway southbound carriageway.  Kaunda was speaking on Thursday at an event in Albert Park to introduce the contractor who will be carrying out the project. The mayor said the cost of rehabilitating the freeway, between Anton Lembede Street (Smith Street) and Pascoe/Reunion Road, will be just over R121 million and it is expected to take 10 months to complete.  “Transport and road infrastructure are the economic lifeblood of any city; and we are delighted to see the beginning of this crucial project. For the city, the M4 is key because it connects the people who live in the south in areas like uMlazi, Wentworth, Isipingo and Amanzimtoti and others to the central business district.” Kaunda said it also plays an important role in the growth and sustainability of the Durban harbour. “Due to high traffic volumes, most of the work will be done at night, with a minimum of one lane open to allow people to travel home from work and businesses in the transport sector to operate optimally.” He appealed to motorists and residents to work with the City during this period.  “We assure the public that we have taken every precaution to minimise traffic congestion and any inconvenience during peak hours.” In addition, Kaunda said work was ongoing to repair road and water and sanitation infrastructure that was damaged during the floods in April and May last year.  “I am pleased with the work being done to repair municipal sewer pump stations and wastewater treatment plants which has led to more beaches being opened as water quality has improved. This morning we conducted an oversight visit to assess progress of the work being done to repair an uMlazi sewer siphon that runs across the uMlazi river canal. We received the new pipe that will see the work being completed in the next nine days.”   Kaunda added that work is also under way to upgrade water infrastructure to improve water supply in various communities.  “Last week, we intervened by ensuring that water pumps were installed in reservoirs supplying the Hambanathi and Ntuzuma communities with water. Early this month, together with the Minister of Water and Sanitation Senzo Mchunu, we commissioned reservoir 3 at the Durban Heights which has improved water supply in areas such as Phoenix and Verulam.” Kaunda is scheduled to address infrastructural challenges in all communities that are experiencing water shortages such as Ngonyameni, Zwelibomvu, Umzinyathi, uMlazi, and Folweni next week.   THE MERCURY