Durban — People have expressed their outrage after a woman was recorded encouraging young girls to attack and beat another young black girl outside a school in the United Kingdom. The incident happened on Monday outside Thomas Knyvett College in Surrey. In the video, a woman calls on a white girl to attack the black girl and others also encourage the white girl during the fight. The woman says the girl should kick the girl in the face and punch her and bang her head on the floor (road). Another girl joins in and pulls the black girl by her braids, pulling them out, and is also encouraged to physically assault the black girl. Even when the attackers walk away, the woman encourages them to go back and “keep doing it”, attacking the girl. Two more girls also join in on the attack and at certain points in the video, the black girl is attacked by four girls at the same time. After a minute and 45 seconds, a man believed to be the school principal approaches and stops the attack. On Wednesday, Thomas Knyvett College principal Richard Beeson issued a statement to parents and carers about the incident. Beeson said that one of their pupils was injured in a violent altercation outside of the school as they were making their way home. “We would like to reassure you that the police were called and are currently investigating,” Beeson said. He said they understand from the police statement that five arrests have been made in connection with this incident. We are supporting the police as they investigate this matter. If you have any information regarding this incident, then please contact the police. “We are aware that this incident will have caused concern among students and parents/carers. We can assure you that we are taking all necessary steps to ensure this isolated incident is dealt with and that student safety is our paramount concern,” Beeson said. In a statement issued by Surrey police, officers are continuing to investigate a serious racially aggravated assault outside a college in Ashford on Monday, February 6, 2023. Police said they were called to the junction of Salcombe Road and Stanwell Road, outside Thomas Knyvett College, at 2.30pm to reports of a group of people attacking two teenage girls. “The victims, two 15-year-old girls, have both received specialist support from officers. One victim has since attended hospital and received medical treatment. We remain in contact with both girls and their families as the investigation progresses,” police said. “Four people so far have been arrested on suspicion of attempted racially aggravated grievous bodily harm (GBH), including a 39-year-old woman, a 16-year-old girl, and two 11-year-old girls. The 39-year-old woman and a 43-year-old man were also arrested on suspicion of child neglect and intentionally encouraging and assisting the commission of an indictable-only offence. The 16-year-old girl was also arrested on suspicion of malicious communications.” Police said that officers continue to investigate the full circumstances and the events leading up to this attack. A 15-year-old girl is still wanted in connection with the attempted racially aggravated GBH and racially aggravated harassment. She knows she is wanted in connection with this incident, and they encourage her to hand herself in to her nearest police station. Significant efforts are being made to locate her. The police also said they had obtained the original video as a key piece of evidence. Inspector Maxine Cilia, Borough Commander for Spelthorne, said: “The video footage of this incident is shocking, and we appreciate the concern it will have caused the wider community. Every school child should feel safe as they move through the local community, and we will not tolerate this level of violence. We are providing specialist support to the victim, who has now returned home after being treated for the injuries she sustained in this distressing assault. “Officers are working hard to gather as much evidence as possible to build a strong case. “Parents, pupils, and the wider public will notice extra police patrols in the area around Thomas Knyvett College today (Wednesday). The officers are there to engage with and reassure the community, and we encourage you to approach them if you have any concerns or questions, and they will help you in any way they can.” This is how some Twitter users reacted to the video: @joelbeya: “So what punishment happens to this mum, for ENCOURAGING & HYPING her kids to FIGHT a girl like this. The person who strolled over to break it up and the ppl who watched…You COWARDS at thomas knyvett college. LOCK THEM UP.” @Yvie777: “@ThomasKnyvett absolutely disgusting! That poor girl being attacked outside the school @educationgovuk @GillianKeegan a racist attack!!! Thomas Knyvett College/Stanwell Road, Ashford TW15 3DU” @birgitomo: “I'm sick, so sick to my intestines. I'm hearing that this racist attack happened @ThomasKnyvett, England. A white woman encourages her kids to beat up a Black girl after days of racially abusing her. Have you seen this? @SholaMos1 @Nadine_Writes @educationgovuk @AlJazeera @UN” @imranharunaA: “@ThomasKnyvett: A black girl in Thomas Knyvett College beaten up by a gang of white kids whilst the parents of the white kids can be heard cheering on and all other adults present including teachers stood by idly. Not acceptable. #Report to the police now!!!” WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News