Durban - The SA National Roads Agency Limited (Sanral) has taken a decision to postpone the resumption of toll fee collections at oThongathi Mainline and Umvoti toll plazas until further notice. This follows last-minute consultations where the resumption of collection of toll fees scheduled to begin on Wednesday was discussed.  The meeting took place on Tuesday night between Sanral, KwaZulu-Natal provincial government and the leadership of KwaDukuza Municipality (KDM).  At the discussions, Sanral was represented by board chairperson Themba Mhambi and CEO Reginald Demana, KZN provincial government by Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC Siboniso Duma, and Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Sipho Hlomuka. The KZN provincial government and Sanral agreed that further consultations will take place shortly, following which an announcement regarding the resumption of toll fee collections will then be made. This comes after KDM mayor Lindile Nhaca had written an urgent letter to Sanral requesting it to delay the toll fees reinstatement, saying the reintroduction of tolling could only add unnecessary pressure to provincial roads and bridges which are due to be repaired by the department following flood damage. Nhaca said the “hasty” reinstatement could risk compromising the integrity of alternative routes. Minister of Transport Fikile Mbalula in April 2022 suspended the payment of tolling at Umvoti and oThongathi toll plazas following severe damage to alternative routes leading to eThekwini – mainly the R102 and the M4 – because of heavy rains that hit the province that month. Nhaca wrote that it should be done in the spirit of co-operative governance, believing that this could lead to unprecedented instability of the  economy and disruption of livelihoods as a result of the anticipated congestion on these routes, especially the R102 since it is an alternative route of the N2. “While we appreciate the significant progress achieved on the M4 in easing the congestion that was experienced after the floods, we equally wish to extend our heartfelt concern on your hasty decision to reinstate the payment of toll fees,” Nhaca said. She said the waiving of toll fees would be in the interest of promoting business and service delivery. KDM spokesperson Sipho Mkhize said KDM was relieved that Sanral had replied, acknowledging receipt of the mayor’s appeal, and promised that it had been resolved to convene an urgent engagement session with the affected stakeholders in the region to provide a progress report pertaining to the flood-damaged road infrastructure road repairs, as well as engage them on the pertinent matter of the resumption of tolling at the oThongathi and Umvoti toll plazas. KwaDukuza Residents Forum chairperson Warwick Chapman said the R102 was only open because of the repairs that were conducted by local residents and the M4 remained closed despite attempts by residents to perform temporary repairs. “We were assured by Sanral last year that the Tongaat bridge on the M4 would be repaired by November. Sanral must collaborate with the KZN Transport Department to repair both alternative routes properly before resuming tolling,” Chapman said.