Durban - eThekwini Municipality mayor Mxolisi Kaunda has applauded South African artists Zakes Bantwini, Nomcebo Zikode, and Wouter Kellerman for their Grammy award win. Kaunda said in a statement on Monday that it is important to recognise performing artists for the vital role they play in society. The trio won in the Best Global Music Performance category for their hit “Bayethe” at the 65th annual Grammy Awards ceremony, held at the Los Angeles Crypto.com Arena in the US on Sunday.  WE WON THE GRAMMY! Congrats @wouterkellerman @ZakesBantwiniSA @Nomcebozikode Best Global Music Performance- Courtesy Jen Su reporting via CBS | GRAMMYs for Entertainment News #GRAMMYs #Grammy #SouthAfrica #wouterkellerman #zakesbantwini #nomcebozikode pic.twitter.com/Q3wBsf9ys4  The mayor said this win is not only for South Africans to celebrate, but the entire African continent. He said South Africa has consistently produced award-winning productions. “From performance acts like ‘Sarafina!’ and the internationally recognised production ‘The Lion King’, to Sjava’s win and Nasty C’s dominance in the international hip-hop fraternity, South Africa is rich with talent. South Africans continue to inspire and encourage us as leaders to present platforms for aspiring performers, especially from previously disadvantaged backgrounds and deep rural areas, to showcase their skills,” he said. The mayor encouraged South Africans to support local music and productions and to give the trio a heroes’ welcome when they return. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube also congratulated the award winners. She said the win affirms the contribution they have made in the music industry locally and internationally. “We are proud of Zakes Bantwini, who hails from KwaMashu, and Nomcebo Zikode, who is from Mpumalanga township in Hammarsdale, for flying the South African flag high and putting the province on the global music stage by winning this Grammy award. We celebrate the success of the son and daughter of the province who are a beacon of hope and an inspiration to many young people in townships and rural areas.”  The premier also applauded the trio for the title of their song “Bayethe”, which can be seen as a tribute to King Misuzulu KaZwelithini, the late King Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu and many other kings who restored hope, peace, unity and revived faith in humanity.   THE MERCURY