Durban - Cyclist Veven Naidoo, 47, succumbed to his injuries in hospital on Monday after he was knocked down while cycling on the M4 between uMhlanga and Sibaya on Saturday. Marshall Security managing director Tyron Powell said at about 4.50am the security company’s Emergency Dispatch Centre received reports of an accident on the M4 close to Sibaya. He said according to the report a cyclist had been knocked by a vehicle which allegedly fled the accident scene. Powell said the Durban North SAPS were informed and medical services were immediately dispatched to the scene. IPSS Medical Rescue spokesperson Dylan Meyrick said when paramedics arrived it was established two cyclists had been involved in a collision with a light motor vehicle. “One cyclist sustained minor injuries while the second cyclist sustained critical injuries. The critically injured man was stabilised on scene by advanced life support paramedics from both IPSS Medical Rescue and Netcare911 before being transported to a nearby hospital for further care,” he said. Powell said a member of Marshall’s special operations team was in the vicinity when the incident took place. He said the member immediately responded to assist. “Upon interviewing bystanders it was established that the vehicle had been seen entering a well-known complex in the Sibaya area,” said Powell. Powell said the member went to investigate and managed to locate the vehicle believed to have been involved in the accident due to the damage that it had sustained. The driver of the vehicle was located a few moments later, he said.    “The Durban North SAPS were informed accordingly and arrived on scene a short while later. The driver of the vehicle was then interviewed by the SAPS and transported to the police station for further investigation and processing,” he said. Powell said it was reported the cyclist had died on Monday morning in hospital. He said Durban North SAPS were investigating a case of culpable homicide against the motorist. “We offer our sincere condolences to the family,” said Powell. The Stay Wider of the Rider campaign, which creates awareness amongst motorists especially when passing cyclists, wrote in a Facebook post on Monday:  "It is with a heavy heart that we have to report that one of the cyclists involved in a hit and run along the M4 in Durban on Saturday, has passed away. Our sincere condolences goes out to the family and friends of Veven Naidoo." IOL reported Naidoo was part of the East Coast Cycling Club and worked as a senior manager for customer care at Rewardsco.   Police have been approached for comment. THE MERCURY