Durban - The South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) in KwaZulu-Natal said pupils should be provided with enough desks after a violent incident at Skofill Secondary School in Bulwer led the Education MEC Mbali Frazer to step in. In a statement on Tuesday, the KwaZulu-Natal Department Education said there was an alleged violent incident where pupils fought over desks at the school, which falls under the Harry Gwala District. The department said MEC Frazer had to intervene. It was alleged that a group of learners engaged in a fight on Friday and the teacher who tried to diffuse the situation was also allegedly assaulted, said the department. Frazer on Tuesday held an urgent meeting with all stakeholders at Skofill Secondary School. Due to the seriousness of the matter at the school, representatives from Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma Local Municipality, Local Traditional Authorities, and members of the community were part of the meeting. During the meeting, the MEC received a report indicating that the school had a shortage of desks in some of the classrooms. This was reported to be the cause of the tensions between pupils as they allegedly fought over the available desks. The department said Frazer was left disturbed by the report that the school management had not submitted a request for additional desks to the relevant section of the KZN Department of Education. Frazer was also informed that several maintenance issues at Skofill Secondary School had not been reported to the department either. Some of the maintenance matters were said to be a result of crime and vandalism at the school. The MEC condemned the alleged incident. The department added that the MEC also issued a directive that desks and chairs be delivered to the school before February 17. “No learner must feel discouraged to attend school because of the shortage of desks and chairs,” said Frazer. Sadtu KZN secretary Nomarashiya Caluza denounced the violence at the school, saying pupils should be provided with enough desks. “Desks are a basic need for teaching and learning to happen. It should be something the department provides, but it also depends on with which category the school was in because some schools receive money to buy resources, and money is spent otherwise. “We discourage and denounce violence; it makes the teaching and learning environment bad. Someone must be held accountable for shortages of desks which end up in fights like these,” said Caluza. THE MERCURY