Durban — A 65-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly attempting to certify a suspected fraudulent matric certificate and trying to bribe the police officer assisting her. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said that Mpumalanga police were investigating a case of fraud and bribery following the arrest of the woman on Tuesday afternoon. “The suspect reportedly arrived at a Metro Community Centre and attempted to certify a suspected fraudulent matric certificate. The officer noticed that the certificate was not genuine and the suspect allegedly offered a R500 bribe to the officer in a quest to quash the matter,” Netshiunda said. “She was subsequently arrested on charges of fraud and bribery of a law enforcement officer.” Police service said that if one didn’t have a matric certificate, they should not try illegal ways of getting one because they would be arrested and have a criminal record. Meanwhile, last week, the Polokwane Specialised Commercial Crimes Court released 21-year-old Thandaza Lubisi on R1 500 bail after she was arrested for alleged fraud. Limpopo spokesperson for the Hawks, Warrant Officer Lethunya Mmuroa, said Lubisi was arrested by the Hawks’ serious commercial crime investigation unit assisted by specialised investigators representing Wesbank. “In December 2022, the accused allegedly visited a vehicle dealership in Tzaneen and requested to be assisted with an application for vehicle finance on a Hyundai Atos,” Mmuroa said. “The application was approved, and consequently she collected a vehicle. The bank conducted forensic audits which revealed that the documents provided to apply for vehicle finance application were fraudulent.” A case of fraud was opened at Tzaneen police station and it was assigned to the Hawks for investigation. After conducting a thorough investigation, Mmuroa said the young woman was traced and arrested. When she appeared in the Polokwane Specialised Commercial Crimes Court, on Tuesday, Lubisi was released on R1 500 bail and her case was postponed for further investigation. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News