Durban - South African celebrities and fans have expressed their sadness at the passing of the late AKA, and his mate Tebello “Tibz” Motsoane. According to record producer, performer and kwaito artist Mthokozisi Khathi, 46, popularly known by his stage name, DJ Tira, the music industry has suffered a major loss. Speaking to Sunday Tribune, Tira expressed his sadness at the news of the rapper’s passing. “It is absolutely painful to know that he is no more. He was at the top of his career and for him to lose his life in the manner that he did, it is difficult to fathom,” he said. The two artists had worked together on a number of projects, including ‘Free’ by Aka featuring DJ Tira and the late Ricky Rick, and the remix of Kwaito star Duncan’s hit single, Tsiki Tsiki. He said that the late rapper was pleasant to be around. “He was an absolutely fun and loving person who always had the energy to work and always had very bright ideas. He always wanted to do more and went the extra mile,” said Tira. He said that he would miss the rapper. “I will definitely miss him and his stage presence. When AKA was on stage, it was always on another level. He was one of the few guys who always performed with a full band, so that was next level for me…continuously going the extra mile. He was really good, so I will dearly miss those performances and his energy,” said Tira. He called on the rapper’s fans and loved ones to have faith in divine power. “Let us have faith that God will do everything in his power to ensure that everything falls into place and comes right. All we need to do is to pray and live life. We should also not forget to pray,” said Tira. Fans of the late Motsoane have also taken to social media to relay their grievances at his passing. Motshwanedi Kagiso Tsatsi who posted on Facebook said that he was lost for words. “Words cannot express how i am feeling right now. We had so much plans for the future bro. You shared with me every knowledge about the game and how to carry myself,” he said. He said that the late Motsoane gave him many platforms. “Tebello Tibz Motsoane you are the first person who gave me my first gig, my first culinary experience outside of culinary school. You believed in my potential probably more than I believed in myself. You showed me the way. You showed me the blueprint of how I should go about with my culinary career. You showed me the future, we shared so much about future plans. “I had learnt so much from you in a short period of time. You put me on. I was a fan first. You ended up being my coach, my friend, my big brother and most importantly you were my mentor. Love You Big Time,” said Tsatsi. Motsoane was an old friend of the rapper and a former manager of his singing career. He wore many hats and later made a name for himself as a chef, author and entrepreneur. Motsoane also co-founded clothing label Head Honcho and head of branding and marketing company, Showlove Consulting. According to the KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson for the South African Police Service, Colonel Robert Netshiunda, police in KwaZulu-Natal are investigating two counts of murder of two men who are aged 34 and 35 years old. “The two were fatally wounded on Florida Road in Morningside, Durban just after 10pm on Friday night, 10 February 2023. “Information at police’s disposal at this stage indicates that the men were walking toward their vehicle from a restaurant when they were allegedly approached by two armed suspects who walked to them from across the street and shot the victims at close range. The suspects are reported to have fled from the scene on foot,” he said. Netshiunda said that both victims were declared dead at the scene. The motive of the shooting is unknown at this stage and police investigations are ongoing. He added that the police were pleading with anyone who may have information which could assist in the investigation and lead to the apprehension of the suspects to contact the nearest police station or Crime Stop on 08600 10111, alternatively, tip-offs can be relayed via the My SAPS App. SUNDAY TRIBUNE