Durban — The minimum pass rate for students funded by the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) has increased to 55%.  NSFAS chairperson Ernest Khosa said that as of 2023, First Time Entering Students (FTENs) must achieve a course credit pass rate of 50%. Continuing university students must as of 2023 achieve a progressive course credit pass rate of 55%. “Returning university students must meet ongoing academic eligibility requirements in order to remain funded by NSFAS. N+ Rule for distance university students will be reviewed as of 2024 and academic progression criteria will increase from 55% to 60% over time,” said Khosa. He said for the 2023 academic year, certain policy changes have been introduced to, among others, progressively address existing disparities between TVET college and university beneficiaries’ bursary packages.  “I, however, would like to restate the changes that the minister has publicly announced. TVET college students studying occupational programmes can only be funded for the cost of tuition for the duration of the qualification,” he said. Moreover, Khosa said the TVET college students who are registered on an occupational qualification may qualify for allowances only if in simulated training. Students registered on an occupational qualification who have an employment contract do not qualify for NSFAS allowances.  Khosa added that TVET college graduates will be funded for a university undergraduate qualification regardless of the benefit that they would have derived from the application of the N+ Rule at TVET college level.  The South African Union of Students(SAUS) welcomed the increase of the course credit pass rate. The union said the learning resources provided to students would assist them in getting the 55% pass mark. SAUS spokesperson Asive Dlanjwa said in the past they could not agree with the Department of Higher Education when it suggested that students pass their modules with 75% in order to continue receiving funding.  Dlanjwa urged students to be dedicated to their studies so that they do not lose their funding. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News