Durban — The arrest of a suspect with cocaine was the tip of the iceberg for KwaZulu-Natal police who raided a storage facility and seized various drugs worth an estimated street value of R2 million. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said the Provincial Drug and Firearm Task Team utilised intelligence and raided a storage facility at a block of flats in the Durban central business district on Tuesday night. “An assortment of drugs, including 5 700 ecstasy tablets, suspected cocaine powder, crystal meth and Mandrax tablets, with an estimated street value of     R2 million were found,” Netshiunda said. “Although no one was found on the premises during the raid, police are hot on the heels of identified suspects.” Earlier, a suspect, aged 27, was arrested after he was allegedly found in possession of cocaine, Netshiunda said. He said the operation also resulted in the arrest of another 27-year-old who was found in possession of a vehicle that had apparently been stolen. “The suspect was spotted driving recklessly along the M4 southbound and with him ignoring police instructions for him to pull over, a high-speed chase ensued. The suspect lost control of the vehicle and crashed on Prospecton Road. Preliminary investigations confirmed that the vehicle was reported stolen at a hospital parking lot in Point, Durban, early in February,” Netshiunda said. He said that on Tuesday afternoon, two men suspected of being behind a spate of business robberies in the eThekwini District were arrested during an operation by the officers of the Rapid Rail Police Unit and the Provincial Investigations and Tracking Task Team in uMlazi, south of Durban. “The suspects, aged 20 and 25 years, have been positively linked with a business robbery in Hillcrest where the duo allegedly stormed into a business on Old Main Road and robbed a business owner of his belongings,” Netshiunda said. He said that during the arrest, the 20-year-old suspect was allegedly in possession of a vehicle which was used during the commission of the crime. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News