Durban - Ponnama Naicker remembers the day her husband Vidyanand tied her wedding thali around her neck in 1958.  It signified the bond of marriage and she wore it everyday. But two days before their 65th wedding anniversary, Naicker handed over her marital chain to a robber. Her 22-carat gold wedding ring and wedding jewellery set comprising a chain, choker, bracelets and earrings; as well as bangles and neck chains were also stolen. "I feel so disheartened and disappointed," said Naicker, 85, of Greenwood Park. "The wedding jewellery was from India and was given to me by my in-laws. I remember when Vidyanand tied the thali at our wedding in Carlisle Street. I felt it was the most precious thing and naturally it became sentimental to me. I loved wearing it. "Vidyanand and I bought other pieces over the years. We worked hard to buy the jewellery and I cry every night thinking about it. The saddest part was that our 65th wedding anniversary was two days after the incident. To think I kept my jewellery safe for so long just for some thief to take it." She said she had intended to pass the jewellery down to her children and four grandchildren. "They told me to keep it and enjoy it, but now I have nothing; not a single piece of gold and no remembrance of my wedding." Relating the incident, Vidyanand, 91, who owned a gardening service business, said: "We were getting ready for breakfast last Monday when a young Indian couple arrived at the back gate. "He asked me to open the gate, which I did. I did not find it odd because I recognised the man. We met in December. He wanted to start a gardening business and someone told him I was selling tools. He said his name was Anthony and that he lived in uMhlanga with his wife and two children. "He was friendly and I felt comfortable with him. He told me to keep all the tools and spare electrical parts aside and that he would come back. “This time, he arrived with a woman and they were both wearing face masks. He introduced her as his wife. They had a packet with juice and biscuits for Ponnama and wanted to come inside to see her. I left them in the lounge and went into the kitchen to tell her that some people were here." Naicker, who was preparing breakfast, said: "They were in the lounge and had face masks. It did not seem strange at the time because we sometimes wear masks in crowded places. "The woman wore reading glasses and was in hijab (head covering). We greeted each other and she gave me the packet with the juice. I put it on the dining room table and went back to the kitchen to make us tea." She said when she turned, the woman was behind her. "The lady made small talk and offered to make tea for my husband. We spoke and she told me her niece was getting married to a Tamil-speaking boy, but she had no idea what type of wedding jewellery was needed. Knowing we were Hindu, she asked if she could see my jewellery. "I don't know what came over me, but I said 'okay'. I took her to my sewing room to show her the jewellery, which I kept there." Naicker said at this stage, her husband and the man were outside. “She began casually removing the gold bangles from my wrist so she could have a better look. She said she also wanted to see the rings and thali. I did not think anything and gave it to her. "She then said she wanted to see my wedding jewellery. When I showed them to her, she looked at them and put them into the same pouch as the thaali, bangles and rings. At no point did I think I was getting robbed. "The lady asked me about the tea, so I left to go to the kitchen. While returning to the sewing room, I saw her running to the front door and out of the property. My husband did not see her leave because he was elsewhere in the house looking for more tools. "I was confused. I went to the sewing room and began shouting when I saw my jewellery was missing. Vidyanand and I were in shock. We quickly went outside and onto the road. Both of them were gone." The couple called Marshall Security and the police and later realised money and perfume were also missing. "Vidyanand and I were too upset and traumatised to celebrate our 65th wedding anniversary. But my daughter did not want us to wallow in sadness, so she forced us to go out for the day. It helped to keep us distracted,“ Naicker said.  She urged the elderly to be vigilant and less trusting. "These thieves approach you under false pretences and use your kindness against you. Be cautious with strangers and please do a thorough security check before allowing anyone into your yard." Naicker said while she was hopeful, she knew she may never get her jewellery back. A case of robbery was opened at the Greenwood Park police station. If you have any information on the theft or have been in a similar incident, call the investigating officer on 079 177 9749 or Greenwood Park police station on 031 571 6512.  The Post