Durban - KwaZulu-Natal Premier Nomusa Dube-Ncube has outlined plans by the provincial government to convert non-viable schools with dwindling enrolment numbers into vocational skills centres. Dube-Ncube was speaking during school monitoring visits in Umbumbulu, south of Durban. In a statement on Wednesday, the provincial government said the issue of the viability of schools with dwindling enrolment numbers had come into sharp focus. “We are in discussion with the Department of Education and Department of Higher Learning and Training because our view is that some of the schools that have good infrastructure but are unused or have been closed because of dwindling enrolment numbers must be converted into Vocational Skills Centres to address the shortage of technical skills,” said Dube-Ncube. The premier said the skills training were required in the field of artisans, plumbers, electricians, construction and carpentry among others. She said this would equip the youth in townships and rural areas with skills to start their own businesses. The premier also raised concerns over reports of theft and vandalism at schools. Dube-Ncube called on communities to demonstrate active citizenry and partner with police to protect school assets and buildings from vandalism, theft and destruction. “The safety and security of teachers, schoolchildren and property are also the responsibility of communities who must work with law-enforcement agencies to bring perpetrators to book. “We cannot afford to keep replacing vandalised infrastructure when we should be focusing on producing top-quality learners by building libraries and laboratories so that we equip learners with the requisite skills for the digital economy,” she said. The provincial government added that the issue of multi-grade teaching - where a teacher teaches multiple grades simultaneously, was also raised. “The Department of Education said teachers who fall under that category are capacitated and trained to ensure that effective learning and teaching takes place.” According to the province there are approximately 3 million pupils who have enrolled in over 6000 schools in the province for the 2023 academic year. THE MERCURY