Durban – The death of an alleged gangster known as Hippo in the Imbali township in Pietermaritzburg has left residents on high alert in expectation of a violent send-off at his funeral on Saturday. Hippo, whose real name is known to IOL, was said to have been shot and killed in a shootout with police on Tuesday in KwaZulu-Natal. His death allegedly sparked a reign of terror as his gangs went on the rampage on Wednesday. They allegedly drove a vehicle that was on fire into the courtyard of a petrol station at the corner of Alan Paton and Alexander roads in the city centre. Social media was abuzz on Wednesday with videos of the incident. According to one onlooker, who asked not to be named, the garage staff managed to extinguish the car. The source said it was in the morning rush of traffic when one person believed to be belonging to the group drove the burning car straight into the garage causing panic among motorists nearby and the staff. “The information we got was that a feared criminal known as Hippo was gunned down by police so his friends are preparing his funeral. As (part of) their culture, they steal and burn cars before his burial,” said the source. In the video that went viral a burning car is seen crossing the robots straight into the garage and people are heard screaming in anticipation of what might happen. One petrol attendant is seen running away from the scene, while motorists are seen reversing away from the car.  A resident from Imbali township who spoke on condition of anonymity said Hippo had been the ring leader and had conducted a reign of terror in the community. He claimed that Hippo was working with other criminals, allegedly robbing and killing people around the Edendale area. In another video, handcuffed men are heard confessing to what was believed to be the voice of a police officer who was asking them one by one about the firearm found in the car they were travelling in. They were also quizzed about other criminal activities that the group was allegedly involved in. Police are yet to confirm the incidents. Police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said police have noted with concern inflammatory messages that are being shared on social media platforms and on different WhatsApp groups about planned criminal activities in Pietermaritzburg and surrounding areas. He said police are on alert and stand ready to respond to any eventuality that threatens to disturb peace and stability in the area. He urged the law-abiding residents not to perpetrate these criminal acts by forwarding or sharing such malicious misinformation. Netshiunda also said that the matter of a known local criminal who was found dead with gunshot wounds was an isolated matter that the police are investigating and should not be used by criminals masquerading as concerned residents to pursue their illegal selfish interests. He denied that the vehicle which was seen burning and driving itself into a fuel station had to do with a public protest or crime. “The vehicle caught fire on its own and as a community, we should be thankful that no one was injured during the incident. We plead with community members to work with the police and provide us with information that could lead to the prevention of any planned criminal activity as well as the arrest of the instigators and peddlers of such malicious messages,” said Netshiunda. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News