Durban — The IFP has suspended the AbaQulusi Local Municipality mayor and an Alfred Duma Local Municipality councillor for making questionable statements and after accusations of sex for jobs. Most recently, an IFP councillor is facing criminal charges after he allegedly used a month-to-month contract to get sex from women desperate to keep their jobs. One of the women – who claimed to have had sex with an IFP councillor in Alfred Duma Local Municipality – has laid charges of rape against him. Provincial police spokesperson Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo said Ladysmith police are investigating a case of rape. Last week, in a recording, AbaQulusi mayor Mncedisi Maphisa is heard allegedly telling staff to fire an employee. He also allegedly makes sexual remarks about female workers in the municipality, reducing them to his sexual subjects. IFP spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa said the national executive committee (NEC) on Monday considered these latest developments and resolved them as follows: “The IFP reaffirms the rights of women in the workplace to perform their jobs free from harassment and intimidation,” Hlengwa said. “The IFP considers these matters to be of a very serious nature, and as such, they are receiving the priority attention of the party through investigation.” The IFP’s announcement came after DA Alfred Duma caucus leader councillor Mike Suddaby called for the suspension of the municipality’s alleged “sexual predator” councillor. Suddaby said the DA in the municipality had written to the mayor, Zama Sibisi, and the speaker, councillor Bheki Sithole, to request that an executive committee member implicated in a “sex for jobs” scandal be suspended pending investigation. Reacting to the audio, Suddaby said: “This audio is disgusting and demeaning. If it is indeed the accused, (this man’s) actions will have brought all councillors in the municipality, especially those in leadership positions, into disgrace and disfavour with the community.” He said the DA demands that he be suspended from all council duties with immediate effect, pending an investigation by the municipality, the SAPS and his political party. “In addition, he must refrain from posting anything on social media, including messages on WhatsApp, in relation to this matter. Furthermore, the 24/7 close protection officials assigned to him be withdrawn with immediate effect,” Suddaby said. “He undoubtedly does not require this very expensive ratepayer-funded protection as we can safely assume that these protection officials were not present and were unaware of his whereabouts or actions when the recording was made, seemingly in a motor vehicle.” Suddaby said the edited and unedited version of the “Sex for Jobs” recordings has filled many of the community with shame and disgust to such an extent that they called for a community meeting. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News