Durban — KwaZulu-Natal Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Sipho Hlomuka has applauded provincial law enforcement agencies for another successful crime prevention operation that resulted in the arrest of 2 573 suspects for various crimes and the recovery of 81 firearms and ammunition. The arrests and recoveries took place between January 26, 2023, and February 6, 2023, where 81 firearms, including four rifles and 818 assortment of ammunition were confiscated. During the operations, 36 suspects were nabbed for murder, while 41 were arrested in connection with attempted murder cases. A further 65 suspects were apprehended for rape and 22 more were nabbed for other sexual offences including sexual assault. Hlomuka has hailed this sting operation as: “A successful display of a well-coordinated integrated crime prevention operation. These number of arrests prove that as government we are committed to turning the tide against crime. This sends a clear message to criminals that police are closing ranks against all criminal elements that seek to destabilise our province.” The MEC also said that such intelligence-driven operations are going to be the order of the day. He emphasised that the government working closely with law enforcement agencies is committed to reclaiming our streets from criminals who continue to threaten the safety of our people and undermine the authority of the state by blatantly engaging in criminal activities. Hlomuka also thanked law-abiding citizens and community crime prevention structures that assisted police with intelligence information which ensured that this operation yielded the desired results, that of ridding our streets and communities of any criminality. On Monday, police spokesperson Colonel Robert Netshiunda said that continuous operations by the police in KZN resulted in firearms, including four rifles and an assortment (818) of ammunition were also removed from society, with 24 suspects put behind bars for being in illegal possession of firearms and ammunition. Netshiunda said that police also managed to prevent violent crimes such as stabbings when 140 suspects were arrested for being in possession of knives. “Seventy-two people were cornered and busted for their suspected involvement in a string of burglaries at residential premises. The operation also led to the arrest of 395 suspects for drug-related crimes and another eight suspects were nabbed for stock theft – six cattle, two goats and a horse were recovered in the process,” Netshiunda said. He said that the police in the province appreciated the co-operation of law-abiding residents in the fight against crime and community members were encouraged to continue providing the police with useful information that helped in the apprehension of suspects who terrorised communities. Information and tip-offs can be provided through the SAPS crime stop number 08600 10111 as well as via the My SAPS App. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News