Durban — The eThekwini Municipality has pointed out that it is moving quickly to restore the water supply in uMlazi, south of Durban. The municipality gave the assurance to residents following a visit to the township early yesterday. The municipality said that it had implemented interventions to ensure the restoration of water supply in uMlazi following a burst of a 300mm diameter water pipe. This affected the supply to Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital and surrounding areas. The pipe burst on the South Coast Bridge over the Umlaas Canal. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda, members of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature Nondumiso Cele and councillors, conducted an inspection of repair work being undertaken after meeting with senior management of the hospital. Kaunda also assessed the interventions being implemented in the interim while repairs are being carried out. These measures include an alternative supply to two hospital reservoirs by water tankers. Each reservoir is one megalitre.  Repairs to the burst water pipe will take about 10 days to complete for full restoration of water to the hospital and surrounding areas. Part of the repairs will include the re-routing of the pipe to ensure easy access when needed. He said that he was confident that repair work will be completed within 10 days and water supply will be restored. “With these interventions, we are certain that communities, businesses and the hospital will be fully functional, and their services will be reinstated within the stipulated repair time,” Kaunda said. Summary of measures: • Water tankers are filling up the hospital’s two reservoirs to be used as an interim alternative supply while repairs are under way. The reservoirs are one megalitres each. • A permanent line, in the form of a steel pipe, will be re-routed to avoid damage to the bridge. Repairs have already started and will be concluded in 10 days. • Water tankers will continue to supply affected communities which include Glebelands Hostel and uMlazi Mega City. Kaunda said that a long-term solution was that the city has developed a Water Master Plan which is part of the Provincial Water Master Plan. “A task team has been put in place to look at short, medium, and long-term interventions that are needed to address challenges of water and sanitation in eThekwini. We also introduced a water infrastructure maintenance levy last year. To date, it has accumulated about R60 million. These funds have been set aside to refurbish and maintain infrastructure,” Kaunda explained. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News