Durban — One of the major factors contributing to unwanted pregnancies is the lack of confidentiality, access and affordability when it comes to obtaining safe contraceptive options.  This is according to a new health tech company, Contro. The company said the ability to access and use safe and effective birth control methods has the potential to positively impact the lives of women across South Africa and beyond. CEO Alex Schmid said unwanted pregnancies are a significant issue in the country, leading to many girls dropping out of school, trapping them in a cycle of poverty, and leaving them stigmatised by society. Schmid said a recent report by the Guttmacher Institute revealed that about 65% of all pregnancies in South Africa between 2015 and 2019 were unintended. Over this period, there were a total of nearly two million pregnancies annually, of which almost 1.3 million were unintended and more than 450 000 ended in abortion.  In the past year, The Star reported that the Stop Stockouts Project (SSP) released its latest survey results on medicine stockouts at public health clinics across South Africa, and called on the National Department of Health to urgently address the issue of contraceptives being out of stock, to ensure that women and girls can always access their preferred contraceptive at any public health facility. Moreover, Schmid said his company assesses patients; they do not only consider the individual’s health, but also their financial capabilities to ensure the correct method, type and brand of birth control is prescribed for the individual’s body, budget and lifestyle. He said the company delivers contraceptives to your doorstep after a virtual consultation with a doctor. He further explained the benefits of contraceptives. Family planning: contraception allows women to plan and space their pregnancies, which can improve their health, the health of their children, and their families’ lives. Improved health outcomes: contraceptives can reduce the risk of certain health conditions, such as ectopic pregnancy, and ovarian and endometrial cancer. Better educational and career opportunities: by preventing unintended pregnancy, contraception can allow women to pursue their education and career goals without interruption. Improved relationships: contraception can improve relationships by reducing conflict and stress related to unintended pregnancy and allowing partners to plan their families together. Increased autonomy and empowerment: contraception gives women control over their reproductive health, allowing them to make decisions about their bodies and their futures. Reduction of poverty: by allowing women to plan and space their pregnancies, contraception can help reduce poverty by improving women’s economic stability and reducing the burden of caring for multiple children. WhatsApp your views on this story at 071 485 7995 Daily News